
 God walls us to have everything. Aswe express life, we fulfill God’s
law of abundance, but we do this onlyas we realize that there is good
enoughto go around— only as we know that all God’s gifts are given as
freely and fullyas the air and the sun....

 —Ernest Holmes

 You can take as much water from the ocean as you are capable of
carrying, but if you don’t bother to go down to the shore with a pot
you get nothing at all....	— Annarnalai Swarni

 The great universe is filled with an abundance of all things, filled to
overflowing. All there is, is in her, waiting only for the touch of the
right forces to cast them forth....	— Ralph W. Trine

 Giving is the secret of abundance....

 -—Sivananda

 The true wonder of the world is available everywhere, in the minutest
parts of our bodies, in the vast expanses of the cosmos, and in the
interconnectedness of these and all things....

 —Michael Stark

 Abundance is knowing that everything you need has already been
supplied....

 —Shantidasa

 Man is not the sum total of what he has already, but rather the sum of
what he does not yet have, of what he could have....	— Jean-Paid
Sartre

 There is enough in the world for everyone’s need; there is not enough
for everyone’s greed....

 —Mohandas Gandhi

  ♦?	 Abundance 

 ?  	

 An abundance mentality springs from internal security, not from
external rankings, comparisons, opinions, possessions, or
associations....

 —Stephen R. Covey

 Nature deals with her children generously; man’s cup is always full
to the brim; and if he chooses to taste of the fine and life-giving
essence, he must cast away something of the grosser and less sensitive
part of himself....

 —Mabel Collins

 Anyone can count the seeds in an apple; no one can count the apples in
a seed....	— Anonymous

 Supply is infinite, but there must be receptivity....We can have all
the supply we will give. But that is where the barrier is—the
unwillingness to give. That is where the lack or limitation is....

 —Joel Goldsmith

 If there is but little water in the stream, it is the fault, not of the
channel, but of the source....	— St. Jerome

 The Abundance of God is like a mighty ocean, so vast you cannot
possibly exhaust it or cause a shortage for others. You can go to this
inexhaustible ocean with a small cup and bring away only that small cup
of bounty and blessing. Or, if you have faith enough, you can take a
bucket and bring away a bucketful. It makes no difference to the ocean.
Nor does it matter how often you go....abundance is always there.... —
Henry T. Hamblin

 To him that has, more shall be given; but from him that has not, the
little that he has shall be taken away....

 —Jesus

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Abundance	*

 Abundance can be had simply by consciously receiving what already has
been given....	— Sufi saying

 Man individually and collectively is entitled to life in all
abundance....El Dorado, a country rich beyond all precedent in gold and
jewels, lies at every man’s door. Your bonanza lies under your feet.
Your luck is already at hand. All is within; nothing is without....	—
Herbert Seibert

 There is enough of everything for everyone....	— Patricia Sun

 When your Source of supply, both spiritual and temporal, is the
Infinite Spirit, your supply is unlimited and inexhaustible: it can
never fail. When you realize this great truth, everything becomes
changed: you look upon life with different eyes. You can say joyfully:
“The Lord is my Shepherd, I shall not want,” accepting the literal
meaning of the words....

 —Henry T. Hamblin

 Keep the thought of God’s abundance always in mind. If any other
thought comes, replace it with that of God’s abundance, and bless that
abundance. Give thanks constantly, if need be, that the work is done....
— Baird Spalding

 The universe cannot be miserly. It cannot be wanting. It holds nothing
but abundance. It is perfect love, and perfect love is absolute, eternal
giving....

 —Emmanuel

 Abundance consists not so much in material possessions, but in an
uncov- etous spirit....	— John Selden

 Abundance is of God; pour into it and it cannot be filled, pour out of
it and it cannot be emptied....

 —Shantidasa

 ♦?	 Abundance

 There is an unvarying law of Divine Supply of temporal necessities
which, if obeyed, and complied with, never fails to act. All that we
need for our body and for our work is already waiting for our use to
fulfill the conditions. The law always acts, it cannot fail.... —
Henry T. Hamblin

 There cannot be a sense of abundance or the experience of prosperity
without appreciation. You cannot find beauty unless you appreciate
beauty. You cannot find friendship unless you appreciate others. You
cannot find love unless you appreciate loving and being loved. If you
wish abundance, appreciate life....	— William R. Miller

 If you approach the ocean with a cup, you can only take away a cupful;
if you approach it with a bucket you can take away a bucketful....

 —Ramana Maharshi

 When you realize there is nothing lacking, the whole world belongs to
you....

 —Lao-tzu

 He who lives in the realization of his oneness with the Infinite Power
becomes a magnet to attract to himself a continual supply of whatever
things he desires....The one who is truly wise and who uses the forces
and powers with which he is endowed; to him the great universe always
opens her treasure house....	— Ralph W. Trine

 Prosperity means that we are able to appreciate and use God’s
spiritual ideas of abundance....	— Lowell Fillmore

 Abundance is a natural law of the universe. The evidence of this law is
conclusive; we see it on every hand. Everywhere Nature is lavish,
wasteful, extravagant. Nowhere is economy observed in any created thing.
Profusion is manifested everywhere....	— Charles Haanel

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890       shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890  
Abundance	*

 Where man sees lack, lack manifests. Where man sees abundance,
abundance is supplied....	 —Darwin Gross

 Abundance is scooped from abundance yet abundance remains....

 —Anne Sexton

 Too often we visit the well of divine abundance with a teacup instead
of a bucket....	 —Elinor MacDonald

 God is able to provide you with every blessing in abundance....

 —Paul of Tarsus

 Opulence is the law of the universe, an abundant supply for every need
if nothing is put in the way of its coming....

 —Ralph W. Trine

 &

  Acceptance 

 T

 here is nowhere we need to goand nothing we need to do; we

 only need be....	 —Margaret R. Stortz

 Acceptance is observation of life and suspension of judgement about
whether what is happening is good or bad, right or wrong....

 —Ron Smothermon

 Everything is acceptable as it is and how it is in existence. There is
not the slightest desire in nature for it to be otherwise....	 —Ormond
McGill

 When God sends rain....rain is my choice....	 —James W. Riley

 You may accept the inevitable with bitterness and resentment or with
patience and grace. Mere acceptance is not sufficient....	 —Paul
Brunton

  ! ♦?	 Acceptance 

  To teach man how to live without certainty and yet without being
paralyzed by hesitation is the lesson of learning acceptance....	
—Anonymous

 Let us....learn to accept ourselves— accept the truth that we are
capable in some directions and limited in others, that genius is rare,
that mediocrity is a portion of almost all of us, but that we can
contribute from the storehouse of our skills to the enrichment of our
common life....	 —Joshua L. Liebman

 Acceptance is a letting-go process. You let go of your wishes and
demands that life can be different. It’s a conscious choice....	
—Gary Emery

 Acceptance of one’s life has nothing to do with resignation; it does
not mean running away from the struggle. On the contrary it means
accepting it as it comes....To accept is to say yes to life in its
entirety....	 —Paul Toumier

 Of course there is no formula for success except perhaps, an
unconditional acceptance of life and what it brings....	 —Arthur
Rubinstein

 Some people confuse acceptance with apathy but there’s all the
difference in the world. Apathy fails to distinguish what can and cannot
be helped; acceptance makes the distinction....

 —Arthur Gordon

 The transition from rebellion to acceptance has an extremely important
consequence....in which we start seeing life as a training school....to
teach us what we need to learn....	 —Piero Ferrucci

 Rowing against the tide is hard and uncertain. To go with the tide and
thus take advantage of the workings of the great natural force is safe
and easy....

 —Ralph W. Trine

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Acceptance	*	4	*	Action

   	

 Be willing to have it so. Acceptance of what has happened is the first
step to overcoming the consequences of any misfortune....	— William
James

 Seek not that the things which happen should happen as you wish; but
wish the things which happen to be as they are, and you will have a
tranquil flow of life....	— Epictetus

 &

  Action 

 M

 ost of people’s activities are val-ueless, if not downright destruc-

 tive. Dominated by desire and fear,ceasing to do evil precedes
beginning todo good. Hence the need for stoppingall activities for a
time, to investigateone’s urges and their motives....

 —Nisargadatta

 Action springs out of what we fundamentally desire....

 —Harry A. Overstreet

 Never confuse movement with action....

 —Ernest Hemingway

 Creativity is “doing,” and it burns itself out; its end is
exhaustion....

 —William Gibson

 Action in itself is neither virtuous nor sinful. The error lies in
attributing it to our false individuality, when really it emanates from
God. So no action is to be discarded. All actions are to be surrendered
to Him.... — Papa Ramdas

 Perpetual motion is the eternal law of life. Like human respiration, it
manifests everywhere in attraction and repulsion. Every action provokes
a reaction; every reaction is proportional to the action which provoked
it....	— Eliphas Levi

 All human actions....are on principle doomed to failure....	— Jean P.
Sartre

 Man is now only more active—not more happy, nor more wise than he was
6,000 years ago....	— Edgar A.	Poe

 All activities and experiences are equal, for it is not the action that
holds importance, but how tuned and aware your attention is while doing
it....

 —A Spiritual Warrior

 In our era, the road to holiness necessarily passes through the world
of action....	— Dag Hammarskjold

 There should be less talk; a preaching point is not a meeting point.
What do you do then? Take a broom and clean someone’s house. That says
enough....

 —Mother Teresa

 Some people have ideas. A few carry them into the world of action and
make them happen. These are the innovators....	— Andrew Mercer

 An action is never good just because it obeys a rule, a custom, or an
impulse....

 —Fernando Savater

 The real compensation of a right action is inherent in having performed
it....

 —Seneca

 The quality of our expectation determines the quality of our
actions....

 —Andre Grodin

 There is a relationship between prayer and action. Receptive prayer
results in an inner receiving, which motivates to right action....	—
Peace Pilgrim

 A  man rises or goes down by his own actions; as the builder of a wall,
or as digger of a well....	— Hitopadesa

 Inaction may be the highest form of action....	— Jerry Brown

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Action 	♦?	 5 	♦?	 Action

 	 ■?JSjR*		

 People take action in order to satisfy essential human needs....

 —Abraham Maslow

 Action should culminate in wisdom....

 — Bhagavad-Gita

 All activity of the universe is God at work—not on its periphery but
at its heart....	— Matthew Fox

 Desire is the prompting of all activity. Desire is the urge. No
activity arises in those who have attained all desires....

 —Sathya Sai Baba

 A  man does not become greater by good action nor inferior by bad
action....	— The Upanishads

 Action is nothing but the movement of energy in consciousness, and it
inevitably bears its own fruit....

 —Yoga Vasistha

 The cause of all actions is desire. A desire crops up in your mind for
an object. Then you exert to possess the object. Desire is the motive
power that keeps up the continuance of life....

 —Sivananda

 Do not be too timid and squeamish about your actions. All life is an
experiment....	— Ralph W. Emerson

 Any activity becomes creative when the doer cares about doing it right,
or better....	— John Updike

 The only way we can be freed from the chain of action and reaction is
by not caring for the result....

 —Paramananda

 I think that feelings waste themselves in words; they ought to be
distilled into actions? and into actions which bring results....	—
Florence Nightingale

 Fortune of her own accord, takes her abode with the man who is endowed
with energy, who is prompt and ready, who knows how to act....

 —Hitopadesa

 The life of action is not incompatible with the life of contemplation,
but subordinate to it....	— Cuthbert Hall

 Steady, determined and purposeful action is one prayer always
answered....

 —Norman Thornton

 Act well at the moment, and you have performed a good action to all
eternity....	— John K. Lavater

 Trust only movement. Life happens at the level of events, not of
words....

 —Alfred Adler

 Dreaming has its place; inspiration is invaluable; but life is action
as well as thought. They get farthest in the realm of character-building
who link up thought and action, who do not merely dream, but act upon
their noblest imaginings....	— R. W. Wilde

 Knowing is not enough; we must apply! Waiting is not enough; we must
do....

 —Johann W. Goethe

 Between saying and doing many shoes are worn out....	— Italian saying

 Thought and analysis are powerless to pierce the great mystery that
hovers over the world and over our existence, but knowledge of the great
truths only appears in action and labor....

 —Albert Schweitzer

 We get to know the things we are attempting to master only by doing
them. No amount of teaching or study ever made a craftsman....

 — U. S. Anderson

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   6

 ■?flpr

 Action

 The great end of life is not knowledge, but action....	— Thomas
Fuller

 The difference between what we do and what we are capable of doing
would suffice to solve most of the world’s problems....

 —Mohandas Gandhi

 Think like a man of action, act like a man of thought....	— Henri
Bergson

 When a man acts wisely, he grows old slowly. When he acts unwisely, he
grows older and older every day in every way....	— Fred Van Amburgh

 Do what you can, with what you have, where you are....

 —Theodore Roosevelt

 A  man who has to be convinced to act before he acts is not a man of
action....

 —Georges Clemenceau

 Activity simply for the sake of activity doesn’t provide the
satisfaction it promises....	— Shantidasa

 Good actions ennoble us, and we are the sons of our own deeds....

 —Miguel de Cervantes

 Your thoughts should agree with your words, and the words should agree
with your actions. In this world people think one thing, say another
thing, and do something else. This is horrible. This is crookedness....
— Sivananda

 Men’s actions depend to a great extent upon fear of loss....	— John
Milhoum

 There is no power greater than right action in the present moment....

 —Yoga Vasistha

 Action to be productive has need of contemplation....	— Mother Teresa

 ’•tt?

 Action

 Leadership is action, not position....

 —Donald H. McGannon

 The soul of all action is blindness. He who knows, cannot act any
longer. Knowing means forgoing action and renouncing passion.... 
—Egon Friedell

 The perfect man does nothing, the sage takes no action....	— Chuang
Tse

 Those who are called to the works of the active life would be wrong in
thinking that their duty exempts them from the contemplative life....
-— St. Thomas

 The world is imprisoned by its own activity....	— Hindu saying

 We must know that we have two kinds of happiness in this life,
according to two different ways, one good, one best, which lead us
thereto: one is the active life, and the other the contemplative....

 —Dante Alighieri

 Our deeds determine us, as much as we determine our deeds.... —
George Eliot

 The result of any action is dependent upon the amount of confidence
with which it is done.... — Sathya Sai Baba

 Where thou hesitatest between two courses of action, always choose the
one which leaves thee more alone, more in silence, more in love....

 —Sister Consolata

 Blessed are they who translate every good thing they know into action,
for ever higher truths shall be revealed to them....	— Peace Pilgrim

 He who sees inaction in action and action in inaction, he is
intelligent among men; he is a man of established wisdom and a true
performer of all actions....	 —Bhagavad-Gita

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Action

 Action is the single most effective antidote to depression, anxiety,
stress, fear, wrong, guilt and of course, immobility. It is virtually
impossible to be depressed and active at the same time....	— Wayne
Dyer

 He who moves not forward goes backward....	— Johann W. Goethe

 Every act of will is an act of self-limitation. To desire action is to
desire limitation....	—G.  K. Chesterton

 Experience is the child of thought, and thought is the child of action.
We cannot learn from books....

 —Benjamin Disraeli

 Doing is the great thing. For if, resolutely, people do what is right,
in time they will come to like doing it....

 —John Ruskin

 Concern should drive us into action and not into depression....

 —Karen Homey

 Wisdom without action hath its seat in the mouth; but by means of
action, it becomes fixed in the heart....

 —Shekel Hakodesh

 For purposes of action nothing is more useful than narrowness of
thought combined with energy of will....

 —Henri F. Amiel

 Every action of our lives touches on some chord that will vibrate into
eternity....	-— Edwin H. Chapin

 All the beautiful sentiments in the world weigh less than a single
lovely action....	— James Russell Lowell

 If we all did the things we are capable of doing, we would literally
astound ourselves....	— Thomas A. Edison

 7

 ■?  -

 cjfc?

 Action

 He who desires but acts not, breedspestilence....	— William Blake

 If the fruits of action do not affect theperson, he is free from
action....

 —Ramana Maharshi

 Why should we be cowed by the nameof Action?...The rich mind lies in
thesun and sleeps and is Nature....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 Every man without passions has withinhim no principle of action, nor
motiveto act....	— Claude A. Helvetius

 I find the great thing in this world isnot so much where we stand, as
inwhat direction we are moving....

 —Oliver W. Holmes

 Action alone is just that does not harmeither party to a dispute....

 —Mohandas Gandhi

 A little knowledge which you carry intoaction is more profitable than
muchknowledge which you neglect to carryout into action....	— Hermes

 Heaven never helps the man who willnot act....	— Sophocles

 Active natures are rarely melancholy.Activity and sadness are
incompati-ble....	— Christian Bovee

 When you cannot make up your mindwhich of two evenly balanced coursesof
action you should take—choose thebolder....	— W. J. Slim

 Desire causes our voluntary acts, forceour involuntary....	— Blaise
Pascal

 The basis of action is the lack of imagi-nation. It is the last
resource of thosewho know not how to dream....

 —Oscar Wilde

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Action

 An ounce of action is worth a ton of theory....	— Friedrich Engels

 Whatever you do, if you do it sincerely, will eventually become a
bridge to your wholeness, a good ship that carries you through the
darkness....	— Carl Jung

 Abandon all action and come to Me for shelter....	— Krishna

 Only those who do not need to engage in action are happy; they are
perfectly content and self contained, and they experience happiness that
extends to all the pores of the body....

 —Tripura Rahasya

 Visible deeds do not increase the goodness of the inner life, no matter
how numerous....	— Meister Eckhart

 The only way to know truly is through practical experiment and
experience. Theory and speculation, if they are not followed by trial
and demonstration, are useless....Knowledge itself is of little or no
value if it does not lead to action....	— -Henry T. Hamblin

 The shortest answer is doing....

 —Lord Herbert

 Great thoughts reduced to practice become great acts.... — William
Hazlitt

 The acts of this life are the destiny of the next....	— Hindu saying

 The actions of men are the best interpreters of their thoughts....

 —John Locke

 Activity is God’s medicine; the highest genius is willingness and
ability to do hard work.... -— Robert S. MacArthur

 If it is not right, do not do it....

 —Marcus Aurelius

  8  ♦?	 Adversity 

 ‘izpc 	

 Unselfish and noble actions are the most radiant pages in the biography
of souls....	— David Thomas

 The end of man is action, and not thought, though it be of the
noblest....

 —Thomas Carlyle

 Action is transitory, a step, a blow, the motion of a muscle—this way
or that....

 —William Wordsworth

 Nothing is so terrible as activity without insight. Look before you
leap is the maxim for the world....

 —Johann W. Goethe

 That action that takes you towards God is right, and that action which
takes you away from God is wrong....

 —Papa Ramdas

 We are not to lead events but follow them....	— Epictetus

 To know and yet not to do is in fact not to know....	— Wang Yang Ming

 The busy bee has no time for sorrow....

 -—William Blake

  Adversity 

 B

 ad times have a scientific value.These are occasions a good learn-

 er would not miss...

 -—Ralph W. Emerson

 The only way the Self can manifest isthrough conflict. To meet one’s
insolu-ble and eternal conflict is to meet God,which would be the end of
the ego withall its blather....

 — Marie-Louise von Franz

 To have a crisis, and act upon it, is one thing. To dwell in perpetual
crisis is another....	— Barbara G. Harrison

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Adversity

 There is never really anything to be discouraged about, because
difficulties are opportunities for inner growth, and the greater the
difficulty, the greater the opportunity for growth....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 Adversity is not undesirable. Because, it is only when you are down and
out in life that you can realize its true value....

 —Papa Ramdas

 If you yield to adversity, the chances are it will master you, but if
you recognize in yourself the power of mastery over conditions, then
adversity will yield to you....	— Ralph  IV.  Trine

 Adversity may call out dormant powers that have never before been
suspected....	— Alice H. Rice

 The bravest sight in the world is to see a great man struggling against
adversity....	— Seneca

 You get tragedy where the tree, instead of bending, breaks....

 —Ludwig Wittgenstein

 Difficulty....is the nurse of greatness—a harsh nurse, who roughly
rocks her foster children into strength and athletic proportion....	
—William C. Bryant

 God is a light to our feet. Let us not be troubled by man, for what is
man if not a fleeting shadow, a windblown leaf, a fading flower, and
vanishing smoke....

 —Olympia Morata

 Tragedy is like a strong acid—it dissolves away all but the very gold
of truth....	— D. H. Lawrence

 The positive and victorious attitude keeps adversity away, while a
negative attitude attracts it....

 —Henry T. Hamblin

 Adversity

 You cannot create experience. You must undergo it....	— Albert Camus

 Men often bear little grievances with less courage than they do large
misfortunes....	— Aesop

 One of the secrets of life is making stepping stones out of stumbling
blocks....

 —Jack Penn

 It may serve as a comfort to us, in all our calamities and afflictions,
that he who loses anything and gets wisdom by it is a gainer by the
loss....

 —Roger L’Estrange

 In many cases stress is caused not by the event itself but rather our
response to the event....	— Robert Eliot

 If we have our own why of life, we shall get along with almost any
how....

 —Friedrich W. Nietzsche

 Times of confusion and general adversity have always been a source of
great good. Real calamity was ordained as man’s perfect mirror, that
he may see himself and see how helpless he is without the support of a
Supreme Being....	— Fred Van Amburgh

 A  man doesn’t realize how much he can stand until he is put to the
test. You can stand far more than you think you can. You are much
stronger than you think you are....if God is dwelling in your life....
— Martin Neimoller

 Meet adversity by turning defeat into victory....	— John A. Schindler

 You cannot direct which way the winds of adversity will blow, but you
can adjust your sails....	— Shantidasa

 Adversity is the first path of truth....

 —George Byron

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Adversity	*

 The most generous vine, if not pruned, runs out into many superfluous
stems and grows at last weak and fruitless; so doth the best man if he
be not cut short in his desires, and pruned with afflictions....	—
Joseph Hall

 Extraordinary afflictions are not always the punishment of
extraordinary sins, but sometimes the trials of extraordinary graces....
— Matthew Henry

 Difficulties strengthen the mind, as labor does the body....	— Seneca

 It is not until we have passed through the furnace that we are made to
know how much dross there is in our composition....	— Charles C.
Colton

 Affliction comes to us all, not to make us sad, but sober, not to make
us sorry, but wise, not to make us despondent, but by the darkness to
refresh us....

 —Henry W. Beecher

 It is a great thing when the cup of bitterness is pressed to our lips,
to feel that it is not fate or necessity, but divine love working upon
us for good ends....	— Edwin H. Chapin

 As threshing separates the wheat from the chaff, so does affliction
purify virtue....	 —Richard	E.	Burton

 If you do not hear reason, she will rap you on the knuckles....

 —Benjamin Franklin

 Look at a man in the midst of doubt and danger, and you will learn in
his hour of adversity what he really is....

 —Lucretius

 Adversity? It’s a tonic, not a stumbling block! Every adversity
carries the seed of an equal or greater benefit....

 —Napoleon Hill

 I ♦?	 Adversity

 Affliction is a treasure, and scarce is any man who hath enough of it.
No man hath affliction enough that is not matured, and ripened by it,
and made fit for God by that affliction....

 —John Donne

 All loss, all gain, is particular....it is only the finite that has
wrought and suffered; the infinite lies stretched in smiling repose....
— Ralph W. Emerson

 The afflictions to which we are accustomed do not disturb us....

 —Claudianus

 When written in Chinese the word crisis is composed of two characters.
One represents danger and the other represents opportunity....

 —John F. Kennedy

 There is nothing, no tragedy too great, no malady so incurable, that we
cannot find something to counteract it if we do not forget to go
within....

 —Paramananda

 Many things are learned in adversity which the prosperous man never
dreams of....

 —Charles H. Spurgeon

 There’s a tremendous amount to be gained through what appears to be
adversity. If we don’t allow the crisis, these challenges to take
place, then we remain fixed in life and never really ripen or mature....

 —Thomas More

 All your sins and sorrows, your fears and anxieties are your own, and
you can cling to them or you can give them up....	— James Allen

 Adversity has the effect of eliciting talents which in prosperous times
would have lain dormant....	— Horace

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Adversity	*	11

 Man meets with adversity and fights it tooth and nail, as something
evil, not knowing that it is merely a preparation for greater things and
a larger and fuller life....	— Henry T. Hamblin

 Fire is the test of gold; adversity of strong men....	— Seneca

 When apparent adversity comes, be not cast down by it, but make the
best of it, and always look forward for better things....	— Ralph W.
Trine

 Adversity is the trial of principle. Without it a man hardly knows
whether he is honest or not....	— Henry Fielding

 I never met a single instance of adversity which I have not in the end
seen was for my own good....

 —Alexander M. Proudfit

 We’re like tea bags: We don’t know our strength until we get into
hot water....

 —Bruce Laingen

 The man who is swimming against the stream knows the strength of it....

 —Woodrow Wilson

 Our worst misfortunes never happen, and most miseries be in
anticipation....

 —Honore de Balzac

 Adversity may be used as a stepping stone to better things, or it may
be used as an excuse for failure. You can measure your own worth by your
reactions to adversity....	— J. M. Jussawalla

 Comfort and prosperity have never enriched the world as much as
adversity has. Out of pain and problems have come the sweetest songs,
and the most gripping stories....	— Billy Graham

 An undisturbed mind is the best sauce for adversity....	— Plautus

 Adversity

 Heaven sends us misfortunes as a moral tonic....

 —Lady Blessington

 Adversity is the midwife of genius....

 —Napoleon Bonaparte

 The brightest crowns that are worn in heaven have been tried, and
smelted, and polished, and glorified through the furnace of
tribulation....

 —Edwin H. Chapin

 The greater the obstacle the more glory we have in overcoming it; the
difficulties with which we are met are the maids of honor which set off
virtue....

 —Jean B. Moliere

 Misfortune is never mournful to the soul that accepts it; for such do
always see that in every cloud is an angel’s face....	— St. Jerome

 Prosperity best discovers vice; adversity best discovers
virtue....Adversity is not without many comforts and hopes....

 —Francis Bacon

 Nature deals us her cruelest blows when she desires us to grow. Once we
see the logic of this, we never again will quit in the face of
adversity....

 — U. S. Anderson

 Adversity is a severe instructor, set over us by one who knows better
than we do ourselves....	— Edmund Burke

 Who is honorable in the sight of the Creator? He who has met with
adversity but bravely endures whatever befalls him....	— Solomon Ibn
Gabirol

 People need trouble—a little frustration to sharpen the spirit on,
toughen it....you have to learn fortitude, endurance....	— William
Faulkner

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065    Adversity	*	12	*	Adversity 

 	 ffp 	

 Difficulties show men what they are. In case of any difficulty God has
pitted you against a rough antagonist that you may be a conqueror, and
this cannot be without toil....	— Epictetus

 Calamity is the perfect glass wherein we truly see and know
ourselves....

 —William Davenant

 Mishaps are like knives, that either serve us or cut us, as we grasp
them by the blade or the handle....

 —James Russell Lowell

 If an obstacle is put in our path, it is only to prevent us from going
the wrong way, and to guide us into what is for us the only right
path....

 —Henry T. Hamblin

 Adversity can be a great advantage to any man, for it rouses his
resources, excites his energies, stimulates his skill, and fires his
fortitude....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 Behold a contest worthy of a god, a brave man matched in conflict with
adversity....	 —Seneca

 If a serious calamity occurs, your mind should not be upset. Just keep
the mind cool and calm. Have presence of mind. Do not cry over spilt
milk....

 —Sivananda

 If there are difficulties in your path, be thankful for them. They will
test your capabilities of resistance; you will be impelled to persevere
from the very energy of the opposition....

 —William Punshon

 Difficulties are God’s errands; and when we are sent upon them we
should esteem it a proof of God’s confidence— as a compliment from
Him....

 —Henry W. Beecher

 <$?

 As in nature, as in art, so in grace; it is rough treatment that gives
souls, as well as stones their luster. The more the diamond is cut the
brighter it sparkles....	— Thomas Guthrie

 It cannot be too often repeated that it is not helps, but obstacles,
not facilities, but difficulties, that make men....

 —William Matthews

 Behind every adversity lies a hidden possibility....	— Sufi Saying

 The ultimate measure of a man is not where he stands in moments of
comfort and convenience, but where he stands at times of challenge and
controversy....	— Martin L. King, Jr.

 It is often better to have a great deal of harm happen to one than a
little; a great deal may rouse you to remove what a little will only
accustom you to endure....	— Lord Greville

 About the only difference between stumbling blocks and stepping stones
is the way you use them....

 —Bernard Meltzer

 The lessons we learn in sadness and from loss are those that abide.
Sorrow clarifies the mind, steadies it, forces it to weigh things
correctly....

 —Theodore Munger

 The less we parade our misfortunes, the more sympathy we command....

 —Orville Dewey

 The winds and the waves are always on the side of the ablest
navigators....

 —Edward Gibbon

 Never rejoice at other people’s misfortunes for you cannot know when
adversity may come to you....

 —Old Testament

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890       shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890  
13

 ■? ffP  ■?

 Adversity

 Nothing befalls a man except what is in his nature to endure....

 —Marcus Aurelius

 It is only from the belief of the goodness and wisdom of a supreme
being, that our calamities can be borne in the manner which becomes a
man....

 —Henry Mackenzie

 The greatest misfortune of all is not to be able to bear misfortune....

 —Bias of Priene

 We attempt nothing great but from the sense of the difficulties we have
to encounter; we persevere in nothing great but from a pride in
overcoming them....	— William Hazlitt

 We become wiser by adversity; prosperity destroys our appreciation of
the right....	— Seneca

 The art of living lies less in eliminating troubles than in growing
with them....

 —Bernard Baruch

 No matter how difficult the situation, life can be celebrated....

 -—Robert Veninga

 Prosperity is too apt to prevent us from examining our conduct; but
adversity leads us to think properly of our state, and so is most
beneficial to us....

 —Samuel Johnson

 A  great man does not lose his self-possession when he is afflicted;
the ocean is not made muddy by the falling in of its banks....	—
Panchatantra

 He that is down needs fear no fall....

 —John Bunyan

 Why in all the affairs of life, do we seem to grow best under
adversity?...

 —Manly Hall

 Adversity

 Prosperity is no just scale; adversity is the only balance to weigh
friends....

 —Plutarch

 He who has no cross will have no crown....	— Francis Quarles

 The keenest sorrow is to recognize ourselves as the sole creator of all
our adversities....	— Sophocles

 For trouble is the thing that strong men grow by....	— H. Bertram
Lewis

 If you lose heart when adversity comes, your strength will only be
weakness....

 —Old Testament

 Kites rise against, not with the wind. No man ever worked his passage
anywhere in a dead calm.... — John Neal

 Adversities do not make the man either weak or strong, but they reveal
what he is....	— Faith Forsyte

 Sometimes great difficulties are permitted only in order to strengthen
the character....	— Robert Benson

 Adversity is the diamond dust Heaven polishes its jewels with....

 —Robert Leighton

 The weak sinews become strong by their conflict with difficulties...

 —Edwin H. Chapin

 The happy and efficient people in this world are those who accept
trouble as a normal detail of human life and resolve to capitalize on it
when it comes along. The hiding places of men are discovered by
affliction....

 —James Alexander

 All the troubles of man come from his not knowing how to sit still....

 —Blaise Pascal

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Adversity

 Different people must contend with different trials, but adversities in
some shape or other come to everyone. Life is a procession of people
bearing crosses and when one carries his awkwardly he interferes with
his fellow-marchers....

 — R. C. McCarthy

 Paradoxical as it may seem, God means not only to make us good, but to
make us also happy, by sickness, disaster and disappointment....	—
Cyrus A. Bartol

 The only way to meet affliction is to pass through it solemnly, slowly,
with humility and faith....Then its very ways of misery will divide and
become to us a wall, on the right side and the left, until the gulf
narrows before our eyes, and we land on the opposite shore....

 —Dinah M. Craik

 M

  Advice 

 A

 mong the most dishearteningand dangerous of....advisors, you

 will often find those closest to you,your dearest friends, members of
yourown family, perhaps, loving, anxious,and knowing nothing
whatever....

 —Minnie Fiske

 No advice is ever necessary from any-where....	— Nisargadatta

 Let me listen to me and not to them....

 —Gertrude Stein

 People have a way of becoming what you encourage them to be—not what
you nag them to be....

 —Scudder Parker

 The true secret of giving advice is, after you have honestly given it,
to be perfectly indifferent whether it is taken or not....	— Hannah W.
Smith

 14  ♦?	 Advice

 We are apt to be very pert at censuringothers, where we will not
endureadvice ourselves....	— William Penn

 All the advice in the world will neverhelp you until you help
yourself....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 Nobody gives you wiser advice thanyourself....	— Cicero

 Advice is like castor oil, easy enough togive but dreadful uneasy to
take....

 —Henry W. Shaw

 To one who knows, it is superfluous togive advice; to one who does not
know,it is insufficient....	— Seneca

 Whoever gives advice to a heedlessman is himself in need of advice....

 —Saadi

 The advice of all who are mature in thelife of dependence upon God is:
Whenin doubt, wait.... — Henry T. Hamblin

 Advice is worth what it costs—that is,nothing....	— Douglas
MacArthur

 Nobody has the answer for you. Thetruth lies in each person. When
yougive up looking to others to tell simplerights and wrongs, you are
left withonly the inward search to discover thetruth.... — Jordan &
Margaret Paul

 When a man seeks your advice he gen-erally wants your praise....

 —Philip Chesterfield

 Men give away nothing so liberally astheir advice....

 —Francois La Rochefoucauld

 I have found the best way to give advice to your children is to find
out what they want and then advise them to do it....	— Harry Truman

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Advice	*

 One of the best ways to persuade others is with your ears, by listening
to them....	— Dean Rusk

 When a man has been guilty of any vice or folly, the best atonement he
can make for it is to warn others not to fall into the like....	—
Joseph Addison

 Do not advise too much: do the job yourself. This is the only advice
you can give to others. Do it and others will follow. ...	— Jawaharlal
Nehru

 Do not scatter advice without the authority born of practical
experience....	— Sathya Sai Baba

 Giving advice is sometimes only showing our wisdom at the expense of
another....	— Anthony Shaftesbury

 We obey our own destiny best when we listen to our heart....

 — U. S. Anderson

 People do not want advice. Even when they ask for it, they want
confirmation. We want to be told we are right....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 It is easy when we are in prosperity to give advice to the
afflicted....

 —Aeschylus

 Whatever advice you give, be brief....

 —Horace

 Unasked advice is a trespass on sacred privacy....	— Henry S. Haskins

 A  good scare is worth more to a man than good advice....

 —Edgar W. Howe

 Seek information, but not from the unreliable; ask for advice but not
from the unwise....	— Mahabharata

 j ♦?	 Advice

 Advice is like snow; the softer it falls the longer it dwells upon, and
the deeper it sinks into the mind....

 —Samuel Coleridge

 Harsh counsels have no effect; they are like hammers which are always
repulsed by the anvil....

 —Gaude A. Helvetius

 All dependence on another is futile, for what others can give others
will take away. Only what is your own at the start will remain your own
in the end. Accept no guidance but from within....

 —Nisargadatta

 Advice is what we ask for when we already know the answer but wish we
didn’t....	— Erica Jong

 Never bother about other people’s opinions. Be humble and you will
never be disturbed....	— Mother Teresa

 How is it possible to expect mankind to take advice when they will not
so much as take warning?...	— Jonathan Swift

 I do not ask advice, I rarely give it. If my advice is not often called
for, still less is it followed. I know of no public or private business
which it has corrected or bettered....	— Michel Montaigne

 When we ask advice we are usually looking for an accomplice....

 —Marquis De La Grange

 Many receive advice, few profit from it....	— Publilius Syrus

 He who can take advice is sometimes superior to him who can give it....

 —Karl von Knebel

 Advice is seldom welcome; those who need it most, like it least....

 —Samuel Johnson

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Advice	*	16 	♦?	 Ambition

   	

 I have often wondered how it is that every man loves himself more than
the rest of man, but yet sets less value on his own opinion of himself
than on the opinion of others....

 —Marcus Aurelius

 If I wanted to become a tramp, I would seek information and advice from
the most successful tramp I could find. If I wanted to be a failure, I
would seek advice from men who never succeeded. If I wanted to succeed
in all things, I would look around me for those who are succeeding, and
do as they do....

 —Joseph M. Wade

 Before giving advice we must have secured its acceptance, or rather,
have made it desired....	— Henry F. Amiel

 We cling to our own point of view, as though everything depended upon
it. Yet our opinions have no permanence; like autumn and winter, they
gradually pass away....	— Chuang Tse

  Ambition 

 A

 mbition is a mental conditionwhich compels one to work

 one’s self to death in order to live....

 —Anonymous

 He who rides the tiger of ambition is oftentimes afraid to dismount....

 —Chinese proverb

 To be unhappy at home is the ultimate result of all ambition.... —
Ben Johnson

 The ambitious climb up high and perilous stairs, and never care how to
come down....	— Thomas Adams

 Ambition renders the mind restless. If the ambition is not realized,
the mind is filled with depression and anxieties. The ambitious man has
no peace of mind....	 —Sivananda

 A  slave has one master; an ambitious man has many masters....

 -—Jean La Bruy ere

 When you find God within you, all your ambitions are fulfilled....there
is no fulfillment of your ambitions for external things....	— Papa
Ramdas

 It is the constant fault and inseparable evil quality of ambition, that
it never looks behind it....	— Seneca

 Ambition is not a vice of little people....

 —Michel Montaigne

 Ambition is but the evil shadow of aspiration....	— George MacDonald

 Put personal ambition away from you, and then you will find consolation
in living or in dying, whatever may happen to you....	— Henry F. Amiel

 Ambition is the grand enemy of all peace, inner as well as outer....

 —John Cowper Powys

 Ambition is bubbles on the rapid stream of life....	— Edward Young

 Ambition breaks the ties of blood and forges the obligations of
gratitude....

 —Walter Scott

 Ambition is the avarice of power; and happiness herself is soon
sacrificed to that very lust of dominion....

 —Charles C. Colton

 Most of the trouble in the world is caused by people wanting to be
important....	— T. S. Eliot

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Ambition	*

 Ambition is a lust that is never quenched, but grows more inflamed and
madder by enjoyment....

 —Thomas Otway

 Ambition is like love, impatient of delays and rivals....	— John
Denham

 Fling away ambition. By that sin angels fell. How then can man, the
image of his Maker, hope to win by it....

 —William Shakespeare

 Ambition and suspicion always go together....	— Georg C. Lichtenberg

 Ambition is a condition inspired by the wish to be first....	— Max
Gralnick

 Ambition is so powerful a passion in the human breast, that however
high we reach we are never satisfied....

 —Niccolo Machiavelli

 Ambition is bondage....

 —Solomon Ibn Gabirol

 Life gets more tranquil when the ambitions die away....	— Lord Birket

 If we do not encourage our ambition, feed it and strengthen it by
vigorous exercise, it will soon die....

 —Orison S. Marden

 Ambition is the senseless chasing of rainbows....	— Frederick Loewe

 In their hurry to attain some ambition, to gratify the dream of life,
men often throw honor, truth, and generosity to the winds....	—
William G. Jordan

 When men’s hearts are free from the ambition of earthly power....the
light of God shining in them will surely dispel the clouds and create an
atmosphere of peace and goodwill....

 —Papa Ramdas

 7  ♦?	 Ambition

 f 	

 No ambition is spiritual. All ambitions are for the sake of the “1
am.” If you want to make real progress you must give up the idea of
personal attainment. The ambitions of so-called spiritual teachers are
preposterous....

 —Nisargadatta

 Ambition can creep as well as soar....

 —Edmund Burke

 A  wise man is cured of ambition by ambition itself; his aim is so
exalted that riches, office, fortune and favor cannot satisfy him....

 —Jean La Bruyere

 Discontent follows ambition like a shadow....	— Henry S. Hawkins

 We have tried the ways of ambition, of self-aggrandizement, of
aggressive opportunism, and we have seen the kind of flimsy success to
which they lead; we have tasted the bitter poisons they generate, we
have known the conflict, the disgust, the inner division, the outer
isolation that follow in their wake....	— Gregory Vlastos

 Nothing is too high for the daring of mortals; we storm heaven itself
in our folly....	— Horace

 Most people would succeed in small things, if they were not troubled
with great ambitions....

 —Henry W. Longfellow

 Throw away all ambition beyond that of doing the day’s work well....

 —William Osier

 Nothing is so commonplace as to wish to be remarkable....

 —Oliver W. Holmes

 Ambition destroys its possessor....

 —The Talmud

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065    Ambition 

 Though ambition is itself a vice, it is often the parent of virtues....

 —Quintilian

 If you pride yourself on your ambition, take a mental inventory of its
ends, and ask yourself whether you desire to attain those personal ends
and forego the opportunities of being happy....

 —Walter B. Wolfe

 Ambition plagues her proselytes by keeping them always in show and
public, like a statue in a street....

 —Thomas Fuller

 Ambition is the mother of unhappiness and prefers to sulk in corners
and dark places. It cannot understand the light of

 day....	— St. Bernard

 Ambition has but little reward for all: A little power, a little
transient fame, a grave to rest in, and a fading name....

 —William Winter

 It is the ambition of many to live without working. What they desire is
a parasitic life, in which they take everything, but give nothing in
return. This is against the principle of Life, and those who try to act
in this manner bring a blight upon themselves....

 —Henry T. Hamblin

 One of the most difficult lessons for ambitious young people to learn
is that when you try to make an impression, that is the impression you
make. Those whose center of emotional gravity is deeply embedded are
willing to wait quietly in line until they are discovered....	 —Sidney
Harris

 Ambition drives people to become false....	 —Anonymous

 Ambition kills spirituality....

 —Paramanada

 18  ♦?	 Anger

 ‘Xf?? 	 1 	

 Ambition is the first curse: the greattempter of the man who is rising
abovehis fellows. It is the simplest form oflooking for a reward....Yet
it is a neces-sary teacher....	 —Mabel Collins

 Ambition for a self-centered motive isvery detrimental to spiritual
growth....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 Ambition to earn fame in the world, togain some position of authority
overfellow-men, to lead a luxurious life—this can never insure Mental
Peace.Mental Peace is the result of quite dif-ferent attainments....

 —Sathya Sai Baba

 Ambition makes the same mistake concerning power, that avarice makes as
to wealth. She begins by accumulating it as a means of happiness, and
finishes by continuing to accumulate it as an end....	 —Charles C.
Colton

 Ambition has its disappointments to sour us, but never the good fortune
to satisfy us....	 —Benjamin Franklin

 Ambition becomes displeasing once it is satisfied....	 —Pierre
Corneille

 ■?M

 Anger

 T

 here is no passion that so shakesthe clarity of our judgement as

 anger. Things will truly seem differentto us when we have quieted and
cooleddown....	 —Michel Montaigne

 Wrath springs only from thwarted desires....	 —Yukteswar

 It is not what we say that hurts but how we say it....	 —John Gray

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Anger

 Anger and hatred are the materials from which hell is made....

 —Thick Nhat Hanh

 Always shun whatever makes you angry....	 —Publilius Syrus

 Tremendous energy comes with anger....Do not suppress it: that would
only hurt you inside. Do not express it: this would not only hurt you
inside, it would cause ripples in your surroundings. What you do is
transform it. You somehow use that tremendous energy constructively on a
task that needs to be done, or in a beneficial form of exercise....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 Anger is the emotion preeminently serviceable for the display of
power....

 —Walter B. Cannon

 The wise conquer by strength, rather than anger. The malevolent fall by
their own rage....	 —Tibetan saying

 Anger seeks to separate rather than join, to tear down rather than
build up, to gain an advantage rather than to share....	 —Shantidasa

 The wise man does not argue, he remains silent and goes quietly on his
path....	 —White Eagle

 You can’t be fueled by bitterness. It can eat you up, but it cannot
drive you....

 —Benazir Bhutto

 Angry men are blind and foolish, for reason at such a time takes flight
and, in her absence, wrath plunders all the riches of the intellect
while the judgement remains the prisoner of its own pride....	 —Pietro
Aretino

 We must interpret a bad temper as the sign of an inferiority
complex....

 —Alfred Adler

 19

 ■?

 < Anger

 Anger insures that one gives oneself up to one’s enemies blindly....

 —Eliphas Levi

 Anger is the seducer of thought. No man can think clearly when his
fists are clenched....	 —George J. Nathan

 Anger burns up all that is noble. It is a consuming fire, born of the
fires of destruction. At the end, it leaves the victim nothing but a
wreck of his better self, burned out, blackened and dead, like forest
trees over which a great fire has swept....	 —Julian P. Johnson

 Anger helps straighten out a problem like a fan helps straighten out a
pile of papers....	 —Susan Marcotte

 No one has ever talked himself (or anyone else) out of an undesired
emotion by hurling insults or by delivering a moral lecture.... 
—Nathaniel Branden

 The surest proof that you lack common sense is when you lose your
temper and your poise. When in a rage, you reveal your weakness, and
“weakness” is not common sense....

 —Fred  Van Amburgh

 Expressing anger when you feel angry nearly always makes you
angrier....

 —Carol Tavris

 Hesitation is the best cure for anger. The first blows of anger are
heavy, but if it waits, it will think again....

 —Seneca

 When a sage is angry, he is no longer a sage....	 —The Talmud

 Strong negative emotions like anger, irritation, and indignation
usually, but not always, indicate that our weak spot has been touched
consciously or unconsciously....	 —Fritz Kunkel

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Anger

 An unawakened person uses “anger” as a screen to hide fear,
insecurity and a guilty conscience....	— OtLatNom

 Your anger is nothing more than your anger toward yourself....	— Ram
Dass

 Anger is an affect which is the veritable epitome of striving for power
and domination. This emotion reveals very clearly that its objective is
to destroy quickly and forcefully any obstruction in the path of its
angry victim....

 —Thurman Fleet

 When angry, count to ten before you speak; if very angry, one
hundred....

 —Thomas Jefferson

 Anger is momentary madness....

 —Horace

 You will not be punished for your anger, you will be punished by your
anger....Let a man overcome anger by love....	— Gautama Buddha

 Whenever you are angry, be assured that it is not only a present evil,
but you have increased a habit, added fuel to a fire....	— Epictetus

 To be angry is to revenge the faults of others upon ourselves....

 —Alexander Pope

 When you allow thoughts of anger....to exercise sway, they have a
corroding and poisoning effect upon the organism; they pull it down, and
if allowed to continue will eventually tear it to pieces by
externalizing themselves in particular forms of disease....

 —Ralph  IV.  Trine

 A  child should gain no respect by anger; when he is quiet let him be
offered what was refused when he wept....	— Seneca

 20

 Anger

 The angry man always thinks he can do more than he can....

 —Albertano of Brescia

 Angry people are insecure people. Anger becomes a face-saving device to
cover up deficiencies of another sort. Don’t be fooled by the
domineering character of an angry person. Know that during moments of
anger there dwells a poor self-image....

 —Shantidasa

 God turns his back on those who quarrel among themselves....

 —Mohandas Gandhi

 What causes conflicts and quarrels among you? Do they not spring from
the aggressiveness of your bodily desires? You want something which you
cannot have....you are envious and cannot attain your ambitions, and so
you quarrel and fight....

 —Paul of Tarsus

 For he who gives no fuel to fire puts it out, and likewise he who does
not in the beginning nurse his wrath and does not puff himself up with
anger takes precautions against it and destroys it....

 —Plutarch

 Oppose not rage while rage is in its force, but give it a while and let
it waste....	— William Shakespeare

 Anger is....an alarm system, signaling the presence of nothing more
than fear. It tells us we are working at cross-purposes to our own
happiness, fearing the loss of something more than we enjoy the
experience of having it....

 —Jesse Jennings

 When a man’s desire is not gratified and when someone stands in the
way of its fulfillment, he gets angry....

 —Sivananda

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Anger	*21	*	Anger

 Angry outbursts tend to produce angry responses....	 —Leland F. Wood

 There is no enemy more vicious than your own anger....  —Sathya Sai
Baba

 The best response you can give to anger is silence....	 —Shantidasa

 When angry, or afflicted with any negative emotion, take time to be
alone with God. Do not talk with people who are angry; they are
irrational and cannot be reasoned with. If you or they are angry, it is
best to leave and pray....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 For every minute you are angry you lose sixty seconds of happiness....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 Anger may aptly be compared to cancer. It is, in fact, mental
carcinoma. In its effects it is more deadly to the mind than cancer is
to the body....

 —Julian P. Johnson

 Anger is the most futile emotion one can experience. It is totally
negative and feeds on one’s irrational, vindictive and punitive
nature. It accomplishes nothing but a wider rift between persons, a
growing dissatisfaction with self, and empty feeling where loving
understanding ought to be....

 —Louise Doud

 Anger is the wind which blows out the lamp of the mind....  —Robert
Ingersoll

 Anger is a form of fear and evidence of the need of defense....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 Anger is the most impotent of passions. It effects nothing as it goes
about, and hurts the one who is possessed by it more than the one
against whom it is directed....	 —Edward Clarendon

 Anger is quieted by a gentle word just as fire is quenched by water....

 —Jean P. Camus

 Anyone who conducts an argument by appealing to authority is not using
his intelligence....	 —Leonardo da Vinci

 Anger is a symptom, a way of cloaking and expressing feelings too awful
to experience directly—hurt, bitterness, grief and, most of all,
fear....

 —Joan Rivers

 He who angers you, conquers you....

 —Elizabeth Kenny

 Be not hasty in your spirit to be angry; for anger rests in the bosom
of fools....

 —Old Testament

 Anger begins in folly, and ends in repentance....	 —Pythagoras

 Human nature is so constituted that if we take absolutely no notice of
anger or abuse, the person indulging in it will soon weary of it and
stop....

 —Mohandas Gandhi

 Nothing on earth consumes a man more completely than the passion of
resentment....  —Friedrich W. Nietzsche

 There is no sin or wrong that gives a man such a foretaste of hell in
this life as anger and impatience....

 —Catherine of Siena

 Rage is anger that has been shame bound. Shame-bound-anger grows in
intensity over the years. It is like a ravenous wolf held captive in the
basement....	 —John Bradshaw

 Consider how much more you suffer from your anger and grief, than from
the very things for which you are angry and grieved....	 —Marcus
Aurelius

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Anger

 Frequent fits of anger produce in the soul a propensity to be angry,
which oftentimes ends in a bad temper, bitterness, and morosity; then
the mind becomes ulcerated, peevish, and grumbling, and is wounded by
the least occurrence....	— Plutarch

 A  man is not wise until he is able to control his passions.... —
Sufi proverb

 Anger is a brief period of lunacy; the most practical way of dealing
with anger is to avoid people when they are angry; the worst possible
reaction to anger is to respond with anger....

 —Shantidasa

 Whenever you hold resentment toward another, you are bound to that
person or condition by an emotional link that is stronger than steel....

 —Catherine Ponder

 Anger comes to us because we lose contact with God. When we keep in
constant contact with God, there is no room for us to be angry....Anger
means lack of love....	— Papa Ramdas

 Sometimes we think that when we are excited and angry we exhibit
strength. It is the weak person who yields to these lower emotions....

 —Paramananda

 Argument is the worst sort of conversation....	— Jonathan Swift

 Every angry thought makes it a little easier to get angry the next
time, and a little more likely....

 —Eknath Easwaran

 An angry man opens his mouth and closes his eyes....	— Cato the Elder

 Attempt not to placate a man at the time of his rage.... — Simon
Eleazar

 22

 • -sp 1  ■?

 Anger

 He best keeps from anger who remembers that God is always looking at
him....	— Plato

 Many people lose their tempers merely from seeing you keep yours....

 —Frank M. Colby

 He whose face is inflamed with anger shows the evil spirit burns within
him....	— The Zohar

 When a man is wrong and won’t admit it, he gets angry....

 —Thomas Haliburton

 Anger leads to hatred, to scapegoats, to violence, to destruction....

 —Jesse Jackson

 Anger and intolerance are the twin enemies of correct understanding....

 —Mohandas Gandhi

 When one obeys anger in his life he will reap only pain and anguish. No
one can follow the habit of anger and make any progress on the spiritual
path....	— Paul Twitchell

 Anger repressed can poison a relationship as surely as the cruelest
words....

 —Joyce Brothers

 Life appears to me too short to be spent in nursing animosity or
registering wrong....	— Charlotte Bronte

 From anger arises delusion; from delusion loss of memory is caused.
From loss of memory, the discrimination facility is ruined, and from the
ruin of discrimination he perishes....

 — Bhagavad-Gita

 The intoxication of anger, like that of the grape, shows us to others,
but hides us from ourselves....

 —Charles C. Colton

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Anger

 Men often make up in wrath what they want in reason....	 —William
Alger

 Only the ignorant man becomes angry. The wise man understands....

 —Indian proverb

 The angry person is never in the right even when right....	
—Shantidasa

 Anger begins with madness, and ends with regret....	 —Abraham Hasdai

 If a man cannot control his temper, how much less can he control
others....

 —Solomon Ibn Gabirol

 To rule one’s anger is well; to prevent it is still better....	
—Tryon Edwards

 Anger concealed hardens into revenge....	 —Edward Bulwer-Lytton

 If the anger of another person rises, the wise man lets the contest
end....

 —Plutarch

 Anger is brief madness, and unchecked, becomes protracted madness,
bringing same and even death....	 —Petrarch

 23

 *

  Anxiety 

 L

 oss gives rise to anxiety when theloss is either impending or

 thought to be temporary. Anxiety con-tains a kernel of hope. But when
lossappears to be permanent, anxiety—protest—gives way to
depression—despair....	 —Judith Viorst

 Anxiety is the price of freedom....

 —Soren Kierkegaard

 Anxiety is the dread of nothingness....

 —Martin Heidegger

 <•*?

 Anxiety

 Anxiety is a word of unbelief or unreasoning dread. We have no right to
allow it. Full faith in God puts it to rest....	 —Horace Bushnell

 So long as we believe in our heart of hearts that our capacity is
limited and we grow anxious and unhappy, we are lacking in faith. One
who truly trusts in God has no right to be anxious about anything.... 
—Paramananda

 Anxiety is the mark of spiritual insecurity....	 —Thomas Merton

 There are three marks of a superior man: being virtuous, he is free
from anxiety; being wise, he is free from perplexity; being brave, he is
free from fear....	 —Confucius

 Anxiety is a thin stream of fear trickling through the mind. If
encouraged, it cuts a channel into which all other thoughts are
drained....

 —Arthur S. Roche

 Anxiety is the poison of human life; the parent of many sins and more
miseries....	 —Hugh Blair

 Anxiety in the heart....causes depression, but a good word makes it
glad....

 —Old Testament

 Anxiety looks at things and makes you concerned about, even obsessed,
with things that seem impossible. It tries to get you to worry, to brood
about your problems and needs. It gets your eyes off God....	
—Anonymous

 Take not anxious thought as to the results of your work nor of your
work. If you are doing all that you can, the results, immediate or
eventual, are not your affair at all....

 —Bolton Hall

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Anxiety

 Nothing in life is more unspeakable than the unnecessaiy anxiety which
we endure....	— Benjamin Disraeli

 The misfortunes hardest to bear are those which never come....

 —James Russell Lowell

 The crosses which we make for ourselves by over-anxiety as to the
future are not Heaven-sent crosses. We tempt God by our false wisdom,
seeking to forestall His arrangements....

 -—Francois Fenelon

 We suffer more in imagination than in reality....	— Seneca

 Why does such a simple thing as keeping busy help to drive out anxiety?
Because of a law....that it is utterly impossible for any human mind, no
matter how brilliant, to think of more than one thing at any given
time....

 —Dale Carnegie

 Anxiety is the rust of life, destroying its brightness and weakening
its power. A childlike and abiding trust in Providence is its best
preventive and remedy....	— Tryon Edwards

 Anxiety is the malady of our time....

 —Aldous Huxley

 Anxiety is caused by disapproval either of oneself or by others. The
disapproval may not actually occur; anxiety can occur even with the
anticipation of disapproval....	— John & Muriel James

 Anxiety is the worst demon in life....

 —Berthold Auerbach

 God did not make us to be eaten by anxiety, but to walk erect, free,
unafraid in a world where there is work to do, truth to seek, love to
give and win....	— Joseph Newton

 24  ♦?	 Anxiety

 ‘ispc   	—	

 We worry away our lives, fearing thefuture, discontent with the
present,unable to take in the idea of dying,unable to sit still.... —
Lewis Thomas

 There is no such thing as pure pleasure;some anxiety always goes with
it....

 —Ovid

 Do not push a wagon as you will onlyraise dust about yourself; do not
thinkof all your anxieties; you will onlymake yourself ill....	— Shih
King

 He who foresees calamities suffersthem twice over....	— Beilby
Porteous

 Anxiety is fear of one’s self....

 —Wilhelm Stekel

 Beware of anxiety....there is nothingthat so much troubles the mind,
strainsthe heart, distresses the soul and con-fuses the judgement....

 —William B. Ullathome

 Suffering itself does less afflict the sens-es than the anticipation of
suffering....

 —Quintilian

 One of the most useless of all things isto take a deal of trouble in
providingagainst dangers that never come....

 -—William Jay

 Be not anxious about what you have,but about what you are....

 —Pope Gregory I

 Nothing in the affairs of man is worthyof great anxiety....	— Plato

 Anxiety springs from the desire thatthings should happen as we
wishrather than as God wills....

 —Anonymous

 No anxiety can change the course of things ordained....	— Papa Ramdas

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890       shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890  
Anxiety

 No grand inquisitor has in readiness such terrible tortures as has
anxiety and no spy knows how to attack more artfully the man he
suspects, choosing the instant when he is weakest; nor knows how to lay
traps where he will be caught and ensnared as anxiety knows how, and no
sharp-witted judge knows how to interrogate, to examine the accused, as
anxiety does, which never lets him escape....

 —Soreti Kierkegaard

 The pursuit of wisdom leads to tranquility, the pursuit of wealth, to
anxiety....	— Shantidasa

 In whatever areas anxiety or timidity are dominant, there we are supine
and incapable....	— David Seabury

 Do you wish to live in tension? By no means. No one who is in a state
of fear or sorrow or tension is free, but whoever is delivered from
sorrows or fears or anxieties, he is at the same time delivered from
servitude....  —Epictetus

 &

  Apathy/Inertia 

 L

 aziness grows on people; it beginsin cobwebs and ends in iron

 chains....	— Charles Buxton

 All that is necessary to break the spellof inertia and frustration is
this: Act asif it were impossible to fail. This is thetalisman, the
formula, the command ofright-about-face....

 —Dorthea Brande

 Were it not for the leaping and twin-kling of the soul, man would rot
away

 in his greatest passion, idleness....

 —Carl Jung

 25  ♦?	 Apathy/Inertia

 	

 Beware of creating paralysis byanalysis....	— Edwin & Sally Kiester

 Stagnation is not a desirable state.Through struggle we develop
strength....

 —Papa Ramdas

 In idleness there is perpetual despair....

 —Thomas Carlyle

 Even when you’re on the right track,you’ll get run over if you just
sitthere....	— Will Rogers

 To “decide not to decide” is still a deci-sion....	— Gerald G.
May

 Instead of tackling the most importantpriorities that would make us
success-ful and effective in life, we prefer thepath of least resistance
and do thingssimply that will relieve our tension,such as shuffling
papers and majoringin minors....	— Denis Waitley

 Put off for one day and ten days willpass....	— Korean proverb

 Delay is the deadliest form of denial....

 — C. Northcote Parkinson

 Be not afraid of growing slowly, beafraid of standing still....

 —Chinese proverb

 I would rather attempt to do somethinggreat and fail, than attempt to
do noth-ing and succeed....	— Robert Schuller

 Iron rusts from disuse; stagnant waterloses its purity and, in cold,
waterbecomes frozen; even so does inactionsap the vigor of the mind....

 —Leonardo da Vinci

 Idleness is the bane of body and mind, the muse of naughtiness, the
chief author of all mischief, one of the seven deadly sins....	—
Richard E. Burton

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065    Apathy/Inertia 

 Idleness is the wellspring and root of all vice....	— Thomas Bacon

 There are only two mistakes one can make along the road to truth: not
going all the way, and not starting....

 —Gautama Buddha

 The man who makes no mistakes does not usually make anything....

 — W. C. Magee

 The force that opposes determination is inertia. Inertia is not a
static thing; it is a dynamic force. Like any force, it tends to magnify
itself and gain momentum until or unless it is superseded by another
force stronger than itself....

 —Alan Cohen

 The great thing in this world is not so much where we stand, as in what
direction we are moving....

 —Oliver W. Holmes

 There is something worse than a difficulty. It is inertia. If you try
to escape difficulties, you decay....

 —Herbert Casson

 It is the greatest of all mistakes to do nothing because you can only
do a little. Do what you can....

 —Sydney Smith

 The greatest mistake a man can make is to be afraid of making one....

 —Elbert Hubbard

 Nothing will ever be attempted if all possible objections must be first
overcome....	— Samuel Johnson

 The procrastinating man is ever struggling with ruin....	— Hesiod

 The worst robber, the greatest thief is the roaming
vagabond—procrastination....	— Fred Van Amburgh

  26  ♦?	 Apathy/Inertia 

 	

 The worst thing one can do is not to try,to be aware of what one wants
and notgive in to it, to spend years in silenthurt wondering if
something couldhave materialized—and never know-ing....	— David
Viscott

 Idleness is the rust that attaches itselfto the most brilliant
metals....

 —Voltaire

 There is no more miserable humanbeing than one in whom nothing
ishabitual but indecision. Fully half ofthe time of such a man goes to
thedeciding, or regretting of matters....

 —William James

 To be happy we must keep busy. Idle-ness soon becomes dreary and
tire-some. If you keep busy enough, youwon’t have time to think and
worryabout yourself....	— George Byron

 Fear in its various guises is at the bot-tom of procrastination....

 —Edwin C. Bliss

 Don’t procrastinate. Delays can make ajob seem bigger than it really
is—andthinking about what you haven’t donesteals time from the job
you havebefore you....	— Bernice Strawn

 If you’re doing nothing, you’re doingwrong....	— Lord Mountbatten

 Science may have found a cure formost evils, but it has found no
remedyfor the worst of them all—the apathy ofhuman beings....	—
Helen Keller

 Procrastination is just another way ofconcealing cowardice....

 —Shantidasa

 Nothing wilts faster than laurels thathave been rested on....

 —Carl Roivan

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Apathy /Inertia	*	27	*

  ■?***•

 From its very inaction, idleness ultimately becomes the most active
cause of evil....	— Charles C. Colton

 Never put off for tomorrow what you can do today.... — Philip
Chesterfield

 Given the choice between action and delay, people will generally
delay....

 —Robert Grudin

 With the majority the ship of thought is allowed to “drift” upon
the ocean of life. Aimlessness is a common vice, and such drifting must
not continue for him who would steer clear of catastrophe and
destruction....

 —James Allen

 To do nothing is in every man’s power....	— Samuel Johnson

 Immature people tend to be apathetic, they tend to place material
values above spiritual values....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 If you wish a man not to do a thing you had better get him to talk
about it; for the more men talk, the more likely they are to do nothing
else....

 —Thomas Carlyle

 Procrastination is the thief of time....

 —Edward Young

 Procrastination is the fear of success....

 —Denis Wheatley

 The idle get irritable, grow indifferent, go to seed mentally and
physically. An idle mind becomes flabby as does an idle body....It is
much better to make mistakes doing something, than to make the mistake
of doing nothing....

 -—Fred Van Amburgh

 Atheism

 &

  Atheism 

 A

  man may believe in all thechurches in the world; he may

 carry in his head all the sacred booksever written; he may baptize
himself inall the rivers of the earth—still if he hasno perception of
God, I would classhim with the rank atheist....

 —Vivekananda

 An atheist is a man who believes himself an accident....

 —Francis Thompson

 I cannot conceive how a man could look up into the heavens and say
there is no God....	— Abraham Lincoln

 A  little philosophy inclineth a man’s mind to atheism; but depth in
philosophy bringeth men’s minds about to God....	— Francis Bacon

 There are no atheists in life rafts....

 —Eddie Rickenbacker

 The absolute affirmation of evil is the denial of God, since God is the
supreme and absolute source of life....

 —Eliphas Levi

 An atheist may be simply one whose faith and love are concentrated on
the impersonal aspects of God....

 —Simon Weil

 We find out the most terrible form of atheism, not in the militant and
passionate struggle against the idea of God himself, but in the
practical atheism of everyday living, in indifference and torpor....	—
Nikolay Berdyayev

 There is really no such thing as an atheist. Atheists think they exist,
but in God’s reality they do not exist....

 —Peace Pilgrim

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065    Atheism 	♦?	 28	*	Atheism 

 	 -sp?		

 Atheism is not a constructive idea—it is an infernal institution,
designed to bring about destitution and despair....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 Those who deny God are denying themselves and their glory....

 —Sathya Sai Baba

 No one has ever died an atheist....Few men are so obstinate in their
atheism, that a pressing danger will not compel them to the knowledge of
a divine power....	— Plato

 Nobody talks so constantly about God as those who insist there is no
God....

 —Heywood Brown

 An atheist is a man who has no invisible means of support....

 —John Buchan

 The worst moment for an atheist is when he feels grateful and doesn’t
know who to thank....

 —Wendy Ward

 Atheism is the death of hope, the suicide of the soul....	— Anonymous

 Atheists put on a false courage in the midst of their darkness and
misapprehensions, like children who when they fear to go in the dark,
will sing or whistle to keep up their courage....

 —Alexander Pope

 Atheism is the source of all iniquities....

 —Philo

 Selfishness is the only real atheism....

 —Israel Zangwill

 People who tell me there is no God are like a six-year-old saying that
there is no such thing as passionate love. They just haven’t
experienced Him yet....

 —William Alfred

 Whoever considers the study of anatomy can never be an atheist....

 —Ed ward Hei-bert

 Atheism is a sign of strength, but only up to a point....	— Blaise
Pascal

 In a way, the greatest praise of God is his denial by the atheist who
thinks creation is so perfect it does not need a creator....	— Marcel
Proust

 My atheism....is true piety towards the universe and denies any gods
fashioned by men in their own image....

 —George Santayana

 The pious man and the atheist always talk of religion; the one of what
he loves, and the other of what he fears....

 —Baron de Montesquieu

 The soul of man does not thrive on godlessness....	-— Harry Wolfson

 Men of earth have branded themselves atheists...and there are no
atheists, man may become antagonistic, but in a true sense he never
becomes an atheist. Impossible....	— FraterAchad

 I do not see the difference between avowing that there is no God, and
implying that nothing definite can for certain be known about Him....

 —John H. Newman

 Atheism thrives where religion is most debated....	— Welsh proverb

 You don’t find atheists in the country; you can’t watch a field of
wheat ripple and ripen without deep beliefs and without feeling that
you’re a small part of something pretty big and lasting....

 —Chester Charles

 No man hates God without first hating himself....	— Fulton J. Sheen

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Atheism

 29

 •*ps- ■?

 Every criminal is an atheist, though he doesn’t always know it....

 —Honors de Balzac

 The conflict between persons who accept God and deny God and those who
declare that God is to be found in this place and those who affirm that
he can be found nowhere is never ending....	— Sathya Sai Baba

  Awakening/ Awareness 

 A

  religious awakening which doesnot awaken the sleeper to love

 has aroused him in vain....

 —Jessamyn  West

 Awareness and happiness are exactly the same thing....	— Vernon
Howard

 Our true nature does not have to be found; it is present at all times,
and we need only abide in its unconditioned awareness....	— A
Spiritual Warrior

 The greatest part of mankind....may be said to be asleep, and that
particular way of life which takes up each man’s mind, thoughts and
actions, may be very well called his particular dream....

 —William Law

 Most are asleep as to their spiritual destiny, but they will one day
awaken to it....	— Darwin Gross

 To see, to hear, means nothing. To recognize (or not to recognize)
means everything....	— Andre Breton

 Watchfulness....is the vital need, for he who does not watch is soon
overwhelmed. The steerman need only sleep a moment and the vessel is
lost....

 —Epictetus

 Awakening /Awareness

 When a man wakes up to see how little he is, he has by that very
awakening found out how great he is. When he learns that he is nothing,
he has in that process discovered that he is everything....	— Sheldon
Shepard

 To those who are awake, there is one ordered universe, whereas in sleep
each person turns away from the world to one of his own....	—
Heraclitus

 Those who are awake live in a state of constant amazement....

 —Jack Komfield

 The aim of life is to live, and to live means to be aware, joyously,
drunken- ly, serenely, divinely aware....

 —Henry Miller

 The man who is aware of himself is henceforth independent....

 —Virginia Woolf

 There is a difference between awakening and deliverance: The former is
sudden, thereafter deliverance is gradual....

 —Shen Hui

 A being whose awareness is totally free, who does not cling to
anything, is liberated....	— Ram Dass

 Awakening, or enlightenment, or liberation is nothing, absolutely
nothing other than perceiving profoundly, deeply, intuitively that what
we are— that-which-is-here-now—is the absolute absence of whatever
is imaginable or recognizable....	— Nisargadatta

 To be taught is nothing; everything is in man, awaiting to be
awakened....

 —Paracelsus

 An aware person is in tune with all the powers of God and makes them
his own....	— Donald Curtis

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065    Awakening/Awareness 

 O my blessed beloved, awake! Why do you sleep in ignorance?...	—
Kabir

 The most powerful agent in character building is the awakening of the
true self to the fact that man is a spiritual being....	— Ralph W.
Trine

 Awakening cannot take place so long as the idea persists that one is a
seeker....

 —Ramesh Balsekar

 Our original....Nature is, in highest truth, devoid of any atom of
objectivity. It is void, omnipresent, silent, pure; it is glorious and
mysterious peaceful joy —and that is all. Enter deeply into it by
awakening yourself....	— Huang Po

 Only when you awaken do you realize you were dreaming.... — John
Wareham

 With awareness, the mystery is perceived....Without awareness we live
only in a world of our own illusion....

 —A Spiritual Warrior

 Life is a series of awakenings....

 —Sivananda

 A  thing cannot observe itself. A thing identified with itself cannot
see itself, because it is the same as itself; and cannot have a
standpoint apart from itself, from which to observe itself....

 —George I. Gurdjieff

 What we usually call human evolution is the awakening of the divine
nature within us....	— Peace Pilgrim

 If I were to begin life again, I should want it as it was. I would only
open my eyes a little more....	— Jules Renard

 Awareness means the capacity to see a coffeepot and hear the birds sing
in one’s own way and not the way one was taught....	 —Eric Berne

 30

 ■?   C   Awakening/Awareness 

 He who dreams must be awakened,and the deeper the man is who slum-bers,
or the deeper he slumbers, themore important it is that he be awak-ened,
and the more powerfully must hebe awakened....	— Soren Kierkegaard

 When man awakens, he finds that he ispart of the one great Reality and
herealizes his union with all things....

 —Paramananda

 How many people eat, drink, and getmarried; buy, sell, and build; make
con-tracts and attend to their fortune; havefriends and enemies,
pleasures andpains, are born, grow up, live and die—but asleep!...	—
Joseph Joubert

 There is no end to the beauty for theperson who is aware. Even the
cracksbetween the sidewalk contain geomet-ric patterns of amazing
beauty....

 —Matthew Fox

 No single event can awaken within us astranger totally unknown to us.
To liveis to be slowly born....

 —Antoine de Saint-Exupery

 Deep within us all there is an amazinginner sanctuary....a holy place,
A DivineCenter, a speaking voice, to which wemay continually return.
Eternity is atour hearts, pressing upon our time-worn lives, warning us
with intima-tions of an astounding destiny, callingus home to Itself to
be awakened....

 —Thomas Kelly

 You have not known what you are, youhave slumbered upon yourself all
yourlife....Whoever you are! Claim yourown....	— Walt Whitman

 The real voyage of discovery consistsnot in seeking new landscapes but
inhaving new eyes....

 —Marcel Proust

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890    Awakening/Awareness 	♦?	 31 

 	 •jsp?

 Compared with what we ought to be,we are only half awake. We are
makinguse of only a small part of our physicaland mental resources.
Stating the thingbroadly, the human individual thuslives far within his
limits. He possessespowers of various sorts which he habit-ually fails
to use....	 —William James

 Man does not evolve, he awakens....

 —Darwin Gross

 The spiritual journey does not consistin arriving at a new destination
wherea person gains what he did not have, orbecomes what he is not. It
consists inthe dissipation of one’s own ignoranceconcerning oneself
and life, and thegradual growth of that understandingwhich begins the
spiritual awakening.The finding of God is a coming to one’sself....	
—Aldous Huxley

 The millions are awake enough forphysical labor; but only one in a
mil-lion is awake enough for effective intel-lectual exertion, only one
in a hundredmillion to a poetic or divine life. To beawake is to be
alive....We must learn toreawaken and keep ourselves awake,not by
mechanical means, but by aninfinite expectation of the dawn....

 —Henry D. Thoreau

 It’s the awareness....of how you arestuck, that makes you recover....

 —Fritz Peris

 Of course you have work to do in thisworld. Your first job is to awaken
yourown divine nature. You can do that byputting yourself into
inspirational cir-cumstances and looking within andwaiting in receptive
silence for answersfrom within....	 —Peace Pilgrim

 Every Awakened man or woman knowsthat the object of life is to realize
God....

 —Papa Ramdas

 Beauty

 &

 Beauty

 T

 hough we travel the world to findthe beautiful we must carry it

 within us or we find it not....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 Beauty is one of those rare things that does not lead to the doubt of
God....

 —Jean Anouilh

 There is but one essence of beauty and that is joy. A truly beautiful
person is always joyful....	 —Shantidasa

 Passing beauties are only the fugitive reflections of the
eternal....All beauty alters and all life melts away; in short,
everything passes with marvelous rapidity; beautiful Helen (of Troy) has
become a toothless skull, then a handful of dust, then nothing....

 —Eliphas Levi

 There is no physical barrier to experiencing yourself as beautiful,
only your belief....  —Harold H. Bloomfield

 A thing of beauty is a joy forever....Beauty is truth—truth,
beauty— that is all ye know on earth, and all ye need to know....	
—John Keats

 Beauty you may have with you always, if you will but plant beauty in
your heart....	 —Fred Van Amburgh

 God’s beauty is expressed whenever man of earth so desires to seek
for it. It shall not be difficult for man to behold beauty, when he
beholds the beauty of God within his own consciousness.... Beauty is
everywhere to he or she who would behold it. When God reigns supreme in
the consciousness of man, the tiniest blade of grass speaks of God’s
beauty....	 —Frater Achad

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Beauty 	♦?	 32

 	 ‘Sp?

 The thing which we speak of as beauty does not have to be sought in
distant lands....It is here about us or it is nowhere....	— Allen
Tucker

 True beauty must come, must be grown, from within....

 —Ralph W. Trine

 We are living in a world of beauty, but few of us open our eyes to see
it....

 —Lorado Taft

 Beauty fades, but a good name endures....	— Apocrypha: Ahikar

 The concept of beautiful and ugly is an individual concept.... — Yogi
Bhajan

 Physical beauty plays a bizarre and central role in our concepts of
love....

 —Robert C. Solomon

 It is wisest and best to fix our attention on the beautiful and the
good, and dwell as little as possible on the evil and false....	—
Richard Cecil

 Beauty is not caused. It is....

 —Emily Dickinson

 Beauty is merely the spiritual making itself known sensuously....

 —Georg W. Hegel

 What is beautiful? Whatever is perceived joyfully is beautiful. Bliss
is the essence of beauty....	— Nisargadatta

 Never lose an opportunity of seeing anything that is beautiful; for
beauty is God’s handwriting—a wayside sacrament. Welcome it in every
fair face, in every fair sky, in every fair flower, and thank God for it
as a cup of blessing....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 Things are beautiful if you love them....

 —Jean Anouilh

 Beauty

 Beauty, unaccompanied by virtue, is a flower without perfume....

 —French proverb

 Nature is painting for us, day after day, pictures of infinite beauty
if only we have eyes to see them....

 —John Ruskin

 The best part of beauty is that which no picture can express....

 —Francis Bacon

 The most natural beauty in the world is honesty and moral truth. For
all beauty is truth....	— Anthony Shaftesbury

 What is beautiful is good, and who is good will soon also be
beautiful....

 —Sappho

 We ourselves possess Beauty when we are true to our own being; ugliness
is in going to another order; knowing ourselves, we are beautiful; in
self-ignorance, we are ugly....	— Plotinus

 If you look for ugliness, you will find it everywhere. When you look
for beauty, you will find that everywhere....

 —Narayana

 Everything that is true is beautiful....

 —Eliphas Levi

 An appearance of delicacy, and even fragility, is almost essential to
beauty....

 —Edmund Burke

 God is beautiful and He loves beauty....

 —Mohammed

 Beauty is God’s handwriting....

 —Charles Kingsley

 Beauty and her twin brother Truth require leisure and self-control for
their growth....

 —Rabindranath Tagore

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Beauty	*	,

 The criterion of true beauty is that it increases upon examination; if
false, that it lessens....	— Fulke Greville

 We are conscious of beauty where there is a harmonious relationship
between something in our nature and the quality of the object which
delights us....

 —Blaise Pascal

 True beauty consists of purity of heart....	— Mohandas Gandhi

 In all ranks of life the human heart yearns for the beautiful; and the
beautiful things that God makes are his gift to all alike.... 
—Harriet Beecher Stowe

 Beauty is in the eye of the beholder....

 —Margaret W. Hungerford

 What is beautiful is a joy for all seasons and a possession for all
eternity....

 —Oscar Wilde

 Beauty is the mark God sets on virtue....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

  Belief 

 B

 elief is our own exercise, and thusit will always be subject to doubt

 and its reverse—unbelief or no belief. Inother words, belief is not
stable....

 —Bernadette Roberts

 Believe! No storm harms a man who believes....	— Ovid

 Believe in poverty and you will be poor. Believe in wealth and you will
be rich. Believe in love and you will have love. Believe in health and
you will be healthy....	-— Napoleon Hill

  i *	Belief 

 	

 The word “belief” is difficult for me. I don’t believe, I must
have a certain reason for a certain hypothesis. Either I know a thing,
and then know it—I don’t need to believe in it....	— Carl Jang

 What distinguishes the majority of men from the few is their inability
to act according to their beliefs....

 —Henry Miller

 To believe is to be strong. Doubt cramps energy. Belief is power....

 —Frederick W. Robertson

 A  belief is like a guillotine, just as heavy, just as light....

 —Franz Kafka

 We are incredibly heedless in the formation of our beliefs, but find
ourselves with an illicit passion for them when anyone proposes to rob
us of their companionship. It is obviously not the ideas themselves that
are dear to us, but our self-esteem that is threatened....	— James
Harvey

 We never believe enough in ourselves....	— Martin Gray

 Believe that life is worth living, and your belief will help create
that fact....

 —William James

 We can be victimized by our beliefs....

 —Judy Tatelbaum

 He does not believe that does not live by his belief....	— Thomas
Fuller

 As our beliefs actually change, so do our experiences....	— Carol
Sheffield

 If we believe in magic, we’ll live a magical life. If we believe our
life is defined by narrow limits, we’ve suddenly made those beliefs
real....

 —Anthony Robbins

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Belief

 You are what you are by what you believe....	 —Oprah Winfrey

 A  belief system carries with it an element of doubt, while knowing
does not. The only way we can successfully do away with our belief
systems is to turn them into knowing....

 —Michael Eldridge

 Anything you believe will limit you in one way or another....

 —Stephen H. Wolinsky

 You must recognize yourself for what you are, not what you believe
yourself to be....	 —Shantidasa

 To effectively change yourself, you must believe yourself capable of
changing and you must have no beliefs which prevent that change....

 —Paul E. Wood

 Upon this little word  belief  hang all your sorrows and joys....

 —James Allen

 To believe with certainty, we must begin with doubting....

 —Stanislaus I

 To believe in the things you see and touch is no belief at all; but to
believe in the unseen is a triumph and a blessing....	 —Abraham
Lincoln

 Remember that what you believe will depend very much upon what you
are....	 —Noah Porter

 The essence of belief is the establishment of habit....  —Charles S.
Pearce

 All belief that does not make us more happy, more free, more loving,
more active, more calm, is, I fear, a mistaken and superstitious
belief....

 —John K. Lavater

 34

 Belief

 There is a golden thread that makes life work. That thread can be named
in a single word: belief....	 —Gaude Bristol

 Whether you believe you can do a thing or whether you believe you
cannot, you are right both times....	 —Henry Ford

 One person with a belief is equal to a force of ninety-nine who only
have interests....	 —John S. Mill

 The mole burrowing in the earth cannot see the stars, for it is blind;
so a man who does not believe in God concerning the temporal, equally
cannot believe concerning the eternal....

 — St. Mark, the Ascetic

 Men tend to have the beliefs that suit their passions....	 —Bertrand
Russell

 Men often become what they believe themselves to be. If I believe I
cannot do something, it makes me incapable of doing it. But when I
believe I can, then I acquire the ability to do it even if I didn’t
have it in the beginning....

 —Mohandas Gandhi

 Men easily believe what they wish to believe....	 —Julius Caesar

 Do not believe in anything simply because you have heard it. Do not
believe in traditions because they have been handed down for many
generations. Do not believe in anything because it is spoken and rumored
by many. Do not believe in anything simply because it is found written
in your religious books. Do not believe merely on the authority of your
teachers and elders....	 —Gautama Buddha

 A belief is not true because it is useful...	 —Henri F. Amiel

 Nothing is so easy as to deceive one’s self; for what we wish, that
we readily believe....	 —Demosthenes

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890    Belief 

 Do what you believe in and believe in what you do. All else is a waste
of energy and time....	— Nisargadatta

 A  man can believe a considerable deal of rubbish, and yet go about his
daily work in a rational and cheerful manner....	— Norman Douglas

 Belief is not truly belief while doubt can still touch it....

 —Karlfried G. Durckheim

 There are two ways to slide easily through life; to believe everything
or to doubt everything; both ways save us from thinking....	 —Alfred
Korzybshi

 Believe that you have it, and you have it....	— Erasmus

 The thing always happens that you really believe in and the belief in a
thing makes it happen. And I think nothing will happen until you
thoroughly and deeply believe in it....

 —Frank L. Wright

 By believing passionately in something that still does not exist, we
create it. The nonexistent is whatever we have not sufficiently
desired....

 —Nik os Kazantzakis

 Maturity of mind is best shown in slow belief....	— Baltasar G.
Morales

 One does not have to believe everything one hears....	— Cicero

 Nothing splendid has ever been achieved except by those who dared
believe that something inside of them was superior to circumstance....

 —Bruce Barton

 A belief is not merely an idea the mind possesses; it is an idea that
possesses the mind....	— Robert Bolton

  35 *	Belief 

 ’ffe  	

 Nothing is so firmly believed as thatwhich we least know....

 —Michel Montaigne

 Believe you can and you can. Believeyou will and you will. See
yourselfachieving, and you will achieve....

 —Gardner Hunting

 A consistent man believes in destiny, acapricious man in chance....

 —Benjamin Disraeli

 Beliefs have the power to create andthe power to destroy....

 —Anthony Robbins

 No iron chain, or outward force of anykind, could ever compel the soul
ofman to believe or to disbelieve....

 —Richard Carlile

 Everyone believes very easily whateverhe fears or desires....

 —Jean La Fontaine

 Why crawl with beliefs when with a lit-tle more effort you can soar by
know-ing?...	— Shantidasa

 Every man prefers belief to the exerciseof judgement....	— Seneca

 If you are not careful, beliefs can stifleyou....	— Stuart Wilde

 A  man’s most valuable trait is a judi-cious sense of what not to
believe....

 -—Euripides

 Whatsoever things you desire, believe and you shall have them.... —
Jesus

 To believe in the Tao is easy; to keep the Tao is difficult....	
—Lao-tzu

 Men and civilizations live by their beliefs and die when their beliefs
pass into doubt....	— Philip Lee Ralph

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890       shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065  
Belief

 There are a great many truths which we do not deny, and which
nevertheless we do not fully believe....

 —James W. Alexander

 It is easier to believe than to doubt....

 -—Everett Martin

 To accomplish great things, we must not only act but also dream, not
only plan but also believe....

 —Anatole France

 It is always easier to believe than to deny. Our minds are naturally
affirmative....	— John Burroughs

 Belief consists in accepting the affirmations of the soul, unbelief, in
denying them....	-— Ralph W. Emerson

 All unbelief is the belief of a lie....

 —Horatius Bonar

 A  man lives by believing something, not by debating and arguing about
many things....	— Thomas Carlyle

 The practical test of a belief is the real test of its soundness....

 —James A. Froude

 Believe as though you are, and you will be....	— Ernest Holmes

 There is everything we need laid up for us in the Divine Providence,
but if we do not believe it, it remains outside our experience....	—
Henry T. Hamblin

 We do not easily believe what we cannot see....	— John Dryden

 Where belief is painful, we are slow to believe....	— Ovid

 I believe in the sun even when it is not shining. I believe in love
even when I do not feel it. I believe in God even when He is silent.... 
—Anonymous

 36  ♦?	 Body

 &

  Body 

 I

 n vain we penetrate more deeply thesecrets of the structure of the

 human body. We shall not dupe nature;we shall die as usual....

 —Bernard de Fontenelle

 The body is made for the soul toexpress it....	— Jean Mouroux

 This body is an instrument or servantof the Soul, and not its
prison....

 —Sivananda

 Death is a shadow that always followsthe body....	— English proverb

 You are not your body. It is just some-thing you wear for a while,
because liv-ing in the earthplane is infinitely moremeaningful and more
involved if youare encased in its trappings and subjectto its rules....
— P. M. H. Atwater

 So long as you identify yourself as thebody, your experience of pain
and sor-row will increase day by day....If youtake yourself as the body,
it means youhave forgotten your true Self....and sor-row results for the
one who forgetshimself....	— Nisargadatta

 Don’t pay too much attention to thebody. If you worry about the
well-beingof your body, you identify with it moreand more. Look upon it
as a usefulvehicle: maintain it, fuel it properlyand repair it if it
breaks down, butdon’t become attached to it....

 —Annamalai Swami

 The soul is a guest in our body, deserv-ing of our kind hospitality....

 —Hillel

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   The body has one fault, that the
more people pamper it, the more its wants are made known....	— Teresa
of Avila

 The body exists, by nature, in a condition of well-being. It is a place
to observe the world from. It is a physical representation of you, and
it is not you....	— Ron Smothemion

 Our bodies change and in the end crumble. It is a house of clay. But
inside there is a spiritual duplicate....

 —Malcolm J. MacLeod

 Give the body the attention it deserves, but not more....When you
cultivate the attitude that you are the body, the body will demand from
you more food, more variety in food, more attention to appearance and
physical comfort....

 —Sathya Sai Baba

 The true ascetic does not gratify the body; but he cares well for the
body that he may advance the spiritual life. Cared for, it is a better
vessel for truth....	— Gautama Buddha

 He will be the slave of many masters who is his body’s slave.... —
Seneca

 Every man is the builder of the temple called his body—we are all
sculptors and painters, and our material is our flesh and blood and
bones. Any nobleness begins at once to refine a man’s features....	—
Henry D. Thoreau

 The human body has one ability not possessed by any machine—the
ability to repair itself....	— George W. Crile

 Everything in this world is transitory and fleeting....No man was ever
born who could stop his body from changing constantly. Body is the name
of a series of changes....

 —Paramananda

 This body is mortal, always gripped by death, but within it dwells the
immortal Self....	— The Upanishads

 A strong body and a bright, happy or serene countenance can only result
from the fine admittance of thoughts of joy and goodwill and serenity
into the mind....	— James Allen

 So long as we are attached to the body and external objects, we shall
never know true peace....	— Papa Ramdas

 Do not neglect this body. This is the house of God; take care of it.
Only in this body can God be realized....

 —Nisargadatta

 I have visited in my wanderings shrines and other places of pilgrimage.
But I have not seen another shrine like my own body....	— Saraha

 The body dies but the spirit is not entombed....	— Dhammapada

 Even as a man puts off his worn-out clothes and puts on new ones, even
so the Self casts off old bodies and takes up new ones....	—
Bhagavad-Gita

 To identify oneself with the body and yet seek happiness, is like
attempting to ford a lake on the back of an alligator....

 —Ramana Maharshi

 How can I, who knows the body to be perishable and the soul to be
imperishable, mourn over the separation of body from the soul?...

 —Mohandas Gandhi

 The body and the mind are so closely connected that not even a single
word or thought can come into existence without being reflected in the
personality and health of the individual....

 —John Prentiss

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065    Body	*	38 

   ^

 People make the mistake of identifyingthemselves with their body, then
ifsomething happens to a person’s body,they think something has
happened tothe person. When you think about it,that’s as ridiculous as
saying that ifsomething happens to the clothing I’mwearing, something
has happened tome. Our body is just what wewear....We need to take care
of it, butit’s not who we are....

 — H. Frederick Vogt

 Our minds have unbelievable powerover our bodies....	— Andre Maurois

 Flesh is merely a lesson. We learn itand pass on....	— Erica Jong

 All of us have mortal bodies, composedof perishable matter, but the
soul livesforever: it is a portion of the Deityhoused in our bodies....

 —Flavius Josephus

 We should be very grateful to have alimited body....If you had a
limitless lifeit would be a real problem for you....

 —Shunryu Suzuki

 The body without the spirit is dead....

 —Paul of Tarsus

 Our bodies are but dust, but they bringpraise to Him that formed
them....

 —Alexander Punshon

 So great a power is there of the soulupon the body, that whichever way
thesoul imagines and dreams that it goes,thither doth it lead the
body....

 —Marcus Agrippa

 The body is a workhouse of the soul....

 —Henry G. Bohn

 A healthy body is a guest-chamber for the soul; a sick body is a
prison....

 —Francis Bacon

  Body 

 Any good practical philosophy muststart out with the recognition of
ourhaving a body....	— Lin Yutang

 My body is merely a clay structure;today it is here, tomorrow it shall
begone....	— Peace Pilgrim

 The body, a perishable cage of flesh andbones, we are identified with
it, wecling to it, we love it, we are attached toit....	— Chidananda

 As a monastery be content with thebody, for the bodily substance is
thepalace of divinity....	— Marpa

 Identifying ourselves with the body isputting the cart before the horse
and iswhy we stumble in life....

 —Ramana Maharshi

 Man is divine. But he is not aware ofhis own divinity. He mistakenly
thinkshe is this little body. But he is not thisbody....Man is something
infinite,immutable and eternal....

 —Sathya Sai Baba

 Men cling to and gratify the flesh asthough it were going to last
forever....

 —James Allen

 The body is not a home but an inn andthat only briefly....	— Seneca

 (Our body is) a thing of shreds andpatches, borrowed unequally fromgood
and bad ancestors and a misfitfrom the start....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 There is no wealth greater than thehealth of the body....

 —Old Testament

 Things divine cannot be obtained by those whose intellectual eye is
directed to the body....	— Procl u s

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Body

 39

 ■?  ‘Spr ■?

 Cause & Effect

 Many people treat their bodies as if they were rented from
Hertz—something they are using to get around in but nothing they
genuinely care about understanding....

 —Chungliang Al Huang

 You are not the body, you are only wearing your body; you are that
which activates the body....	— Shantidasa

 If anything is sacred the human body is sacred....	— Walt Whitman

 Forego not the sublimely spiritual for the lowly physical....

 —Shem Tob Falaquera

 There is nothing the body suffers that the soul does not profit by....

 —George Meredith

 Verily, there is no freedom from pleasure and pain for one while he
dwells in the body....	— The Upanishads

 The body is the soul’s house. Shouldn’t we take care of our house
that it doesn’t fall into ruin?...	— Philo

 The body is a tabernacle in which the transmissible human spirit is
carried for a while, a shell for the immortal seed that dwells in it and
has created it....	— George Santayana

 Good men spiritualize their bodies....

 —Benjamin Whichcote

 Believe not that man consists of flesh, skin and veins. The real part
of man is his soul, and the things just mentioned are only outward
coverings. They are only veils, not the real man....

 —The Zohar

 There are no souls without bodies. God alone is wholly without body....

 —Goffried Leibniz

 Heavy thoughts bring on physical maladies; when the soul is oppressed
so is the body....	— Martin Luther

 God made the human body, and it is the most exquisite and wonderful
organization which has come to us from the divine hand....	— Henry W.
Beecher

 This body, which you love so much, is time bound....Treat the body like
a visitor or guest which has come and must go....	— Nisargadatta

  Cause & Effect 

 T

 o have love towards anotherhuman being is a blessing and to

 have anger towards him is a curse....

 —Annamalai Swami

 The seed never explains the flower....

 —Edith Hamilton

 If men spit upon the ground, they spit upon themselves....	— Chief
Seattle

 The one who shares will never be lacking, for his or her storehouse
will always be full of love, and will receive abundant love to
perpetually replenish it....	— A Spiritual Warrior

 A  human being fashions his consequences as surely as he fashions his
goods or his dwelling. Nothing that he says, thinks, or does is without
consequences....	— Norman Cousins

 Mankind cares nothing for you until you have shown that you care for
mankind....	— Ralph W. Trine

 No good ending can be expected in the absence of the right beginning.
It is too late....	— I Ching

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Cause & Effect	*	40	*	Cause	&
Effect

 	isp?	

 A harmonious action produces its harmonious counterpart. A discordant
action necessitates a reaction and will look ill-regulated but will be,
in reality, a balancing one. If you fight violence with violence, you
will perpetuate violence; but if you oppose it with strength of
meekness, you will enable meekness to triumph and violence will be
broken....	— Eliphas Levi

 People who spit into the wind are defying the workings of cause and
effect....

 —Shantidasa

 Man (is) the sole and absolute master of his own fate forever. What he
has sown in the times of his ignorance, he must inevitably reap; but
when he attains enlightenment, it is for him to sow what he chooses and
reap accordingly....	— Geraldine Coster

 In this world everything changes except good deeds and bad deeds; these
follow you as the shadows follow the body....	— Ruth Benedict

 Nothing in all Nature is more certain than the fact that no single
thing or event can stand alone. It is attached to all that has gone
before it, and it will remain attached to all that will follow it. It
was born of some cause, and so it must be followed by some effect in an
endless chain.... — Julian P. Johnson

 Not in the heavens above, nor in the farthest reaches of the sea, nor
by transporting yourself to the remotest valleys of the mountains, will
you be able to hide from the consequences of your own evil actions.
Likewise, certain are the blessings growing out of your good actions....
— Gautama Buddha

 A perfect cause must produce a perfect effect....	— Ernest Holmes

 In all human affairs there are efforts, and there are results, and the
strength of the effort is the measure of the result. Chance is not....

 —James Allen

 The law of cause and effect is inexorable and unrelenting. You reap a
harvest of suffering, poverty, pain and sorrow, because you have sown
the seed of evil in the past. You reap a harvest of plenty and bliss
owing to your sowing of seeds of good....	— Sivananda

 The cause is hidden, but the result is known....	— Ovid

 A  vacuum cannot exist in nature. An empty space is immediately filled
by something else. And this law is effective on all levels. If what you
give is luminous, radiant, beneficial, in return you will receive
elements of the same quality, with the same luminous, radiant
quintessence. But if you emanate something filthy, you will at once be
filled with filth....

 —Omaraam M. Aivanhov

 A  great flame follows a little spark....

 —Dante Alighieri

 Whoso casteth a stone on high, casteth it on his own head....Whoso
diggeth a pit shall fall herein; and he that setteth a trap shall be
taken therein. He that worketh mischief, it shall fall upon him, and he
shall not know whence it cometh....	— Old Testament

 If you help others, you will be helped, perhaps tomorrow, perhaps in
one hundred years, but you will be helped. Nature must pay off the
debt....it is a mathematical law and all life is mathematics....	—
George I. Gurdjieff

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890    Cause & Effect 

 Sin does not always bear its painful fruit unto the sinner, here on
earth, at once; but circling, it reacts unfailingly, and cuts the
sinner’s very roots of being; and often it inflicts the consequence
upon the children and grandchildren too....	— Mann

 Never goes a sin without its due return; and deeds of noble goodness,
or dire sin, bear their just fruit, here, in this very life. Never is
there escape from consequence, because the Great Judge dwells within
each heart....

  —Mahabharata 

 Cause and effect, means and ends, seed and fruit, cannot be severed;
for the effect already blooms in the cause, the end pre-exists in the
means, the fruit in the seed....You cannot do wrong without suffering
wrong....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 One who knows the cause knows the effect. But the cause of human
effects is the heart....	— Thomas Aquinas

 The seed of God is in us. Given an intelligent farmer and a diligent
farmhand, it will thrive and grow up to God whose seed it is and,
accordingly, its fruit will be God-nature. Pear seeds grow into pear
trees; nut seeds into nut trees, and God- seed into God....	— Meister
Eckhart

 To treat effect while ignoring cause is not the appropriate remedy for
any social malady. Any person of wealth can uplift the poor and
downtrodden for a period of time, but genuine healing lies in working
with cause, the upliftment of the spirit....	— Anonymous

 Thoughts of lack manifest as limitation. Thoughts of abundance manifest
as success and happiness. Failure and success are but two ends of the
same stick....	— Ernest Hoimes

  41  ♦?	 Cause	&	Effect 

 Nothing happens by chance. Every occurrence has its cause from which it
follows by necessity....	— Democritus

 No man in the world ever attempted to wrong another without being
injured in return—some way, somehow, some time. Nature keeps her books
admirably; she puts down every item, she closes all accounts finally,
but she does not always balance them at the end of the month....	—
William G. Jordan

 We sow our thoughts, and we reap our actions; we sow our actions, and
we reap our habits; we sow our habits, we reap our characters; we sow
our characters and reap our destiny....

 —C.  A. Hall

 There is always a close and intimate relationship between the end we
aim at and the means adopted to attain it....

 —Jawaharlal Nehru

 The whole of human life is cause and effect; there is no such thing in
it as chance, nor is there even in all the wide universe....Let him
never forget that whatever he may get for himself at the expense of
someone else....will by a law equally subtle, equally powerful, be
turned into ashes in his very hands....

 —Ralph W. Trine

 The present condition continues nothing more than the past, and what is
found in the effect was already in the cause....	— Henri Bergson

 We are both the cause and the effect of ourselves. Our world was, is,
and always will be what we made, make, or will make of it....	— Guy L.
Playfair

 Good and evil do not befall men without reason. Heaven sends them
happiness or misery according to their conduct....	— Confucius

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Cause & Effect	*	42 	♦?	 Cause	&
Effect

     	

 No man, who continues to add something to the material intellect and
moral well-being of the place in which he lives, is left living without
proper reward....	— Booker T. Washington

 Heaven will permit no man to secure happiness by crime.... — Vittorio
Alfieri

 God is the free cause of all things....

 —Baruch Spinoza

 For every action, there is an equal and opposite reaction. If you push
hard on the world, the world pushes back on you. If you touch the world
gently, the world will touch you gently in return....

 —Paul Hewitt

 Beware of spitting into the wind....

 —Friedrich W. Neitzsche

 Wise is the man who seeks the cause of things....If the market goes up,
or if the market goes down, there is a cause. If business is good, or
not so, there is a cause. If you are ill, there is a cause....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 Wisdom is the faculty of knowing what will be the effect of a cause....

 —Alfred A. Montapert

 Our personal dispositions are as window panes through which we see the
world either as rosy or dull. The way we color the glasses we wear is
the way the world seems to us....

 —Fulton f. Sheen

 Good thoughts and actions never produce bad results; bad thoughts and
actions can never produce good results. This is but saying that nothing
can come from corn but corn, nothing from nettles but nettles....	—
JamesAllen

 The one who strives for effect is always fooled more than he succeeds
in fooling others. The man and the woman of true insight can always see
the causes that prompt, the motives that underlies the acts of all with
whom he or she comes in contact.... — Ralph W. Trine

 The consequences of bad thought or action cannot be avoided; they are
the invisible police, the unseen avengers, that accept no gifts, that
hear no prayers, that no cleverness can deceive....	— Robert Ingersoll

 In this world whatever is gained is gained only by self-effort; where
failure is encountered, it is seen that there has been a slackness in
self-effort....

 —Yoga Vasistha

 He who injures others is sure to be injured by them in return....

 —Chuang Tse

 One generation plants trees while another gets the shade....

 —Chinese proverb

 The world is a looking glass, and gives back to every man the
reflection of his own face. Frown at it, and it will in turn look sourly
upon you; laugh at it and with it, and it is a jolly, kind companion....
— William M. Thackeray

 It is foolish to be surprised when a fig tree produces figs....

 —Marcus Au relius

 The game of life is a game of boomerangs. Our thoughts, deeds, and
words return to us sooner or later, with astounding accuracy....

 —Florence S. Shinn

 You can do anything in this world if you’re prepared to take the
consequences....	— Somerset Maugham

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Cause & Effect

 43

 ‘tfip! 3

 Cause & Effect

 The man who has no inner life is a slave of his surroundings, as the
barometer is the obedient servant of the air....

 —Henry F. Amiel

 There is a certain interval between sowing and reaping. Therefore we
must not lose belief in the reward....

 — St. Mark, the Ascetic

 God does not play dice with the universe....	— Albert Einstein

 A  grain thrown into good ground brings forth fruit; a principle thrown
into a good mind brings forth fruit. Everything is created and conducted
by the same Master: the root, the branch, the fruits—the principles,
the consequences....	— Blaise Pascal

 Chance is a word void of sense, nothing can exist without a cause....

 —Voltaire

 Do not blame karma, or anybody else, for what you are. You can undo
what has been done, through the exercise of a....determined will....

 —Papa Ramdas

 All life is a boomerang. We receive what we give....	— Shirley
MacLaine

 Take away the cause, and the effect ceases....	— Miguel de Cervantes

 A  thought of anger or hatred sends arrows from the mental factory
towards the person aimed at, hurts the individual, sets up discord and
disharmony in the thought-world, and comes back again to the sender and
harms the sender also....	— Sivananda

 Every seed bears its fruit; the fruit of good deeds is sweet, that of
others is always bitter; always remember that....

 —Allan Kardec

 He who asks questions cannot avoid the answers....	— Oriental proverb

 The notion of causation is one of the first lessons we learn from
experience....	— John H. Newman

 The law, “Whatsoever a man sows that he shall also reap,” is
inscribed in flaming letters upon the portal of Eternity, and none can
deny it, none can cheat it, none can escape it....	— James Allen

 Nothing exists from whose nature some effect does not follow....

 —Baruch Spinoza

 There is an old saying that though the mills of the gods grind slowly,
yet they grind exceedingly fine. That is only another way of saying that
one can never escape his own karma....

 —Julian P. Johnson

 Humanity, it seems, always treats the physical effects, not the
spiritual causes—lust, greed, selfishness. Humanity always ends up
treating the effects—not the cause. To treat the causes would change
lifestyles—even this civilization itself! And that humanity is
unwilling to do....	— Michael A. Sydner

 Through the law of cause and effect we choose our destiny. Moreover, we
are our own prophets for we constantly project our future state by the
seeds we plant in the present....

 —Cheryl Canfield

 There is no place in the universe, no mountain, no sky, no heaven where
one does not undergo the consequences of actions performed by
oneself....

 —Yoga Vasistha

 No effect is ever the effect of a single cause, but only a combination
of causes....	— Herbert Samuel

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Cause & Effect	* 	;

 In nature there are neither rewards or punishments—there are
consequences....	 —Robert Ingersoll

 God is the cause, everything else is the effect....	 —Shantidasa

 A wicked man who reproaches a virtuous one is like one who looks up and
spits at heaven; the spittle soils not the heaven but comes back and
defiles his own person....  —Gautama Buddha

 God is not to be fooled; a man reaps what he sows. If he sows seed in
the field of his lower nature, he will reap from it a harvest of
corruption, but if he sows in the field of spirit, the spirit will bring
him a harvest of eternal life....	 —Paul of Tarsus

 If we are loving we are likely to have love in return, but if we show
harsh and critical attitudes we are certain to provoke resentment and
opposition so we get what we ask for....

 —Leland F. Wood

 &

  Change 

 C

 onsider how hard it is to changeyourself, and what little chance

 you have of trying to change others....

 —Jacob M. Braude

 The world never stands still. It is a constant becoming. The face of
the earth—as well as the face you see in the mirror—offers clear
evidence that all is flux and change....	 —Robert Collier

 The most powerful thing you can do to change the world, is to change
your own beliefs about the nature of life, people, reality, to something
more positive....and begin to act accordingly....

 —Shakti Gawain

 ! ♦?	 Change

 A living thing is distinguished from a dead thing by the multiplicity
of changes at any moment taking place in it....	 —Herbert Spencer

 The direction of change to seek is not in our four dimensions: it is
getting deeper into what we are, where you are, like turning up the
volume on the amplifier....	 —Thaddeus Golas

 Only that which is real never changes....

 —Shankara

 Whenever we decide to change, we meet resistance. We are always
challenged to see if we are serious....

 —Andrew Matthews

 The wheel of change moves on, and those who were down go up and those
who were up go down....

 —Jawaharlal Nehru

 The things that come into being change continuously....

 —Augusto Roa Bastas

 A change of heart is the essence of all other change and is brought
about by re-education of the mind....

 —Emmeline Pethich-Lawrence

 Not everything that is faced can be changed, but nothing can be changed
until it is faced....	 —James Baldwin

 All things change, creeds and philosophies and outward systems—but
God remains!...	— Mrs. Humphry Ward

 All is change, all yields its place and goes....	 —Euripides

 All things which have a soul change, and possess in themselves a
principle of change, and in changing move according to the law and to
the order of destiny....	 -—Plato

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890       shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890  
Change 	♦?	 45 	♦?	 Change

 	 OTC		

 The absurd man is he who never changes....	 —Auguste Barthelemy

 All our resolves and decisions are made in a mood or frame of mind
which is certain to change....

 —Marcel Proust

 Your life is not going to change until you change, and the only way you
can really change is to stop changing....

 —Anonymous

 Some people change when they see the light; others when they feel the
heat....

 —Caroline Schroeder

 Resisting change is as futile as resisting the weather....	— Warren
Bennis

 All changes are taking place in the universe as willed by the divine.
Changes are due to the very fact that this manifestation is not
permanent. It is ever-changing. But the Spirit underlying the universe
is eternal and changeless....	— Papa Ramdas

 Everything is destined to change except God and the spark of God
within....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 Change man and you change society. Try to change society without the
inner change in man, and confusion will be the sole result. And each
conscious individual is solely responsible for making changes in
himself....

 —George Trevelyan

 When something seems to change in the world....it is really you that is
changing....	— Deepak Chopra

 If you want to truly understand something, try to change it....	—
Kurt Lewin

 It’s only forms that change, not essence....	— Ram Dass

 Change requires energy. It usually doesn’t take any more energy to
change than you have been expending maintaining yourself in the old
patterns, but initially it feels like it is taking more energy....	—
Paul E. Wood

 When faced with the choice between changing and proving there’s no
need to do so, most people get busy on the proof....	— John K.
Galbraith

 It is only change that is at work here....

 —I Ching

 There is nothing that stands fast, nothing fixed, nothing free from
change, among the things which come into being, neither among those in
heaven nor among those on earth. God alone stands unmoved....	— Hermes

 God, give us the serenity to accept what cannot be changed, the courage
to change what should be changed, and the wisdom to know the
difference....

 —Reinhold Niebuhr

 If you don’t like something about yourself, change it. If you can’t
change it, then accept it....	— Ted Shackelford

 There are no quick fixes that can permanently change your life....

 —Sonya Friedman

 It is useless and futile to try to change other people. The only person
I can change is myself....  —William Curtiss

 In this world everything changes, everything decays. Youth becomes old
age, health becomes sickness, beauty becomes disease....	— Muktananda

 Perhaps man, having remade his environment, will turn around at last
and begin to remake himself....

 —Will Durant

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Change

 He who expects to change the world will be disappointed; he must change
his view. When this is done, the tolerance will come, forgiveness will
come and there will be nothing he cannot bear....	— Hazrat Inayat Khan

 Change, indeed is painful, yet ever needful....	— Thomas Carlyle

 All things must change to something new, to something strange....

 —Henry W. Longfellow

 No one can persuade another to change. Each of us guards a gate of
change that can only be unlocked from the inside. We cannot open the
gate of another, either by argument or by emotional appeal....	—
Marilyn Ferguson

 It is only the wisest or the very stupidest who cannot change....

 —Confucius

 Change is always more complicated then most of us imagine....Even when
you are highly motivated to change, it is difficult to do so. Years have
gone into building who we are, and worse than anything it is scary to
rearrange our parts....	— Melvyn Kinder

 Consistency is contrary to nature....

 —Aldous Huxley

 Change is life. Without change there would be no growth, no
understanding, no relating and no surprises. We are by nature changing
beings. Still we seem to fear and resist it more than any other aspect
of life.... — Leo Buscaglia

 Change is one thing, progress is another....	— Lord Russell

 God will not change the condition of men, until they change what is in
themselves....	— Koran

 46

 Change

 A  permanent state of transition is man’s most noble condition....

 —Juan R. Jimenez

 Change seems to happen when you have abandoned the chase after what you
want to be (or think you should be) and have accepted—and fully
experienced—what you are....

 —Janette Ramwater

 In a higher world it is otherwise; but here below to live is to change,
and to be perfect is to change often....

 —John H. Newman

 Only the changeable can be thought of and talked about. The
unchangeable can only be realized in silence....

 —Nisargadatta

 Everything subject to time is liable to change....	— Joseph Albo

 There is a strict rule in spiritual life that every change, each
experience, comes only when the person is ripe....

 —Lucy Comellssen

 Other people do not have to change for us to experience peace of
mind....

 —Gerald Jampolsky

 The change of one simple behavior can affect other behaviors and thus
change many things....	— Jean Baer

 The main dangers in this life are the people who want to change
everything....or nothing....	— LadyAstor

 We are restless because of change, but we would be frightened if change
were stopped....	— Lyman L. Bryson

 Any change, even a change for the better, is always accompanied by
drawbacks and discomforts....

 —Arnold Bennett

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Change

 We must all obey the great law of change. It is the most powerful law
of the universe....	— Edmund Burke

 Some pessimists would say that no one changes, that a leopard never
changes his spots. But in fact everyone is changing every day either for
better or for worse....	— Alan L. McGinnis

 You never have to change what you see, only the way you see it....

 —Tkaddeus Golas

 Everything is changing; God alone is changeless....	— Teresa of Avila

 Observe constantly that all things take place by change, and accustom
thyself to consider that the nature of the Universe loves nothing so
much as to change....The Universe is change....

 —Marcus Aurelius

 Change is our ally....  —Willard Wirtz

 Let no one disturb you, let nothing frighten you. Everything passes
away except God....	— Theresa ofLisieux

 Nothing that exists perishes, but men are in error when they call the
changes which take place ‘destructions’ and ‘deaths.’...	—
Hermes

 Progress is impossible without change; and those who cannot change
their minds cannot change anything....

 —George B. Shaw

 Change means movement, movement means friction, friction means heat,
and heat means controversy....

 —Said  Alinsky

 The wood does not change the fire into itself, but the fire changes the
wood into itself. So we are changed into God, that we shall know Him as
He is....	— Meister Eckhart

 47

 ■? isps* -

 q$?

 Change

 Such is the state of life that none arehappy but by the anticipation
ofchange....	— Samuel Johnson

 Anytime you sincerely want to make achange, the first thing you must do
israise your standards....

 —Anthony Robbins

 The world hates change; yet it is theonly thing that has brought
progress....

 —Charles F. Kettering

 Most of the change we think we see inlife is due to truths being in and
out offavor....	— Robert Frost

 The more things change, the morethey remain the same....

 —Alphonse Karr

 Weep not that the world changes—did itkeep a stable, changeless
state, it wouldbe cause enough to weep....

 —William C. Bryant

 Change is not made without inconve-nience, even from worst to best....

 —Richard Hooker

 It’s the most unhappy people who mostfear change....	— Mignon
McLaughlin

 The man who never alters his opinionis like a man standing in water,
andbreeds reptiles in his mind....

 —William Blake

 It is sufficiently clear that all things arechanged and nothing really
perishes,and the sum of matter remainsabsolutely the same....

 —Francis Bacon

 Times of change are times of fearful-ness and times of opportunity.
Whichthey may be for you depends uponyour attitude toward them....

 —Ernest C. Wilson

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Change

 Know that it is the image that changes; the true Self never moves or
changes....

 —Vachaka Kovia

 We can change, slowly and steadily, if we set our will to it....

 —Robert Benson

 All things change, nothing perishes....

 —Ovid

 The desire to change the direction of your life is one of the surest
signs of grace....For a while you may not know the direction in which to
go. But you will know without doubt that the direction you have been
going in is wrong....

 —Eknath Easwaran

 48

 • rp- ■?

 Change in all things is sweet..

 -Aristotle

 We ought not to progress in life by aseries of violent jerks, but
should learnto navigate our lives upon the flowingstream of change. By
being amenableand adaptable we should cease toresent either life or
conditions, andseek to “change” them by changing our-selves....	—
Ronald Beesley

 Times change and we change withthem....	— Raphael Holinshed

 The unforgiving mind rigidly sees thepast and future as the same and is
resis-tant to change. It does not want thefuture to be different from
the past....

 —Gerald Jampolsky

 We must always change, renew, rejuve-nate ourselves; otherwise, we
harden....

 —Johann W. Goethe

 The only thing in life you can reallycount on is change....	—
Anonymous

 To deny change is to deny the only sin-

 gle reality....	— Leo Buscaglia

 <4t?

 Change

 Change is resisted when we do not have a voice in the change....

 —Mason Horton

 Keep the currents moving. Don’t let your life stagnate....

 —John Burroughs

 We are on the verge of the new age, a whole new world. Human
consciousness, our mutual awareness, is going to make a quantum leap.
Everything will change....All this is going to happen just as soon as
you’re ready....

 —Paul Williams

 Truth, as a general rule, is severely resisted by the worldly. It
oftentimes advocates an unwanted change and change for many people is an
uncomfortable inconvenience. The support of custom, the security of
tradition does not enjoy being rattled or placed in jeopardy....	—
Shantidasa

 Today is not yesterday. We ourselves change. How then, can our works
and thoughts....continue always the same?...

 —Thomas Carlyle

 There is no sin punished more by nature than the sin of resistance to
change....

 —Anne Morrow Lindbergh

 Three things make people want to change. One is that they hurt
sufficiently. They have beat their heads against the same wall so long
that they decide they have had enough....Another thing that makes people
want to change is a slow type of despair called ennui, or boredom....A
third thing that makes people want to change is the sudden discovery
that they can....

 —Thomas Harris

 Nothing ever is, but is always becoming....	— Plato

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Change

 49

 Character

 Everything in life that we really accept undergoes a change....

 —Katherine Mansfield

 The moment you start moving in the direction of accomplishment, you
will find that life will accommodate you....

 —Jack Addington

 All is flux, nothing stands still. Nothing endures but change....You
could not step twice into the same river, for other waters are ever
flowing onto you. There is nothing permanent except change.... —
Heraclitus

 If you do not change direction, you may end up where you are
heading....

 — Lao-tzu

 You do not alter God by your prayers; you do not have to change God’s
will or make God change His mind towards you, but only to become changed
yourself, in order to be made at-one, or brought in tune, with the good
that God has prepared for you....

 —Henry T. Hamblin

 Intolerance, uncharitable judgement of other people, censorious
criticism, disparagement of other people’s efforts....all these things
indicate resistance to change.... — Ronald Beesley

 In this world of change naught which comes stays, and naught which goes
is lost....	-—Ami  S. Swetchine

 You are not here to change the world, the world is here to change
you....

 —Shantidasa

 Everything that seems to us imperishable tends toward its
destruction....

 —Marcel Proust

 The ripple effect describes how a minor change in behavior or attitude
can have a major effect....	— Joyce Brothers

 The wheel of Providence is always in motion....	— Philip Henry

 Whatever you consider yourself to be changes from moment to moment.
Nothing is constant....	— Nisargadatta

 Is any man afraid of change? What can take place without change?...

 —Marcus Aurelius

 Change your mind and change your life....	— Anonymous

 Are you willing to be sponged out, erased, cancelled, made nothing? Are
you willing to be made nothing? Dipped into oblivion? If not, you will
never really change....

 — D. H. Lawrence

 Character

 T;

 he most powerful agent in charac-ter-building is the awakening to

 the true self, to the fact that man is aspiritual being—nay, more,
that I, thisvery eternal I, am a spiritual being,right here and now, at
this verymoment, with the God-powers whichcan be quickly called
forth....

 —Ralph W. Trine

 Characters live to be noticed. Peoplewith character notice how they
live....

 -—Nancy Moser

 To keep your character intact youcannot stoop to filthy acts. It makes
iteasier to stoop the next time....

 —Katherine Hepburn

 Character is like a tree and reputationlike its shadow. The shadow is
what wethink of it; the tree is the real thing....

 —Abraham Lincoln

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Character	*	.

 The reputation of a thousand years may be determined by the conduct of
one hour....	— Japanese proverb

 In this world a man must either be an anvil or hammer....

 — Hem'll W. Longfellow

 Character builds slowly, but it can be torn down with incredible
swiftness....

 —Faith Baldwin

 Trifles often uncover a man’s character best because with trifles,
one is apt to be more easily caught off guard....

 —Shantidasa

 In the pursuit of wealth or knowledge or reputation, circumstances have
power to mar the wisest schemes, but where character is the prize, no
chance can rob us of success....

 —Frederich Robertson

 If you want success in life, if you want to influence others, if you
want to progress well in the spiritual path and if you wish to have
God-realization, you must possess an unblemished, spotless character.
The quintessence of man is his character....	— Sivananda

 As fire when thrown into water is cooled down and put out, so also a
false accusation when brought against a man of the purest character,
boils over and is at once dissipated and vanish es....	— Cicero

 No one can climb out beyond the limitations of his own character....

 —John Morley

 Your character is the result of your conduct....	— Aristotle

 No change of circumstance can repair a defect of character....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 i ♦?	 Character

 Character is much easier kept than recovered....	— Thomas Paine

 Every man has an atmosphere which is affecting every other. So silent
and unconsciously is this influence working, that man may forget it
exists....

 —William G. Jordan

 A  man’s own character is the arbiter of his fortune....	
—Publilius Syrus

 Character is not made in a crisis—it is only exhibited....	— Robert
Freeman

 Character is what you are in the dark....

 —Dwight L. Moody

 The man of character bears the accidents of life with dignity and
grace, making the best of the circumstances....

 —Aristotle

 Character is simply a habit long continued....	— Plutarch

 Character is the final decision to reject whatever is demeaning to
oneself or to others and with confidence and honesty choose what is
right....

 —Arthur Trudeau

 You cannot dream yourself into character; you must hammer and forge one
for yourself....	— James Froude

 Character is constructed in the midst of the tempests of the world....

 —Johann W. Goethe

 A  man of character finds a special attractiveness in difficulty, since
it is by coming to grips with difficulty that he can realize his
potentialities....

 —Charles de Gaulle

 Character is the result of two things— mental attitude and the way we
spend our time....	— Elbert Hubbard

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890       shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890  
Character

 51

 • ‘sps 3  ■?

 Character

 Life is not....for mere passing pleasure, but for the highest
unfoldment that one can attain to, the noblest character that one can
grow....	— Ralph W. Trine

 Integrity includes but goes beyond honesty. Honesty is telling the
truth—in other words, conforming our words to reality. Integrity is
conforming reality to our words—in other words, keeping promises and
fulfilling expectations....

 —Stephen R. Covey

 If I keep my good character, I shall be rich enough....	— Platonicus

 Character is best tested by our reaction to adversity and temptation.
It requires real character to go on when the going is difficult....	—
J.	M. Jussawalla

 The grand aim of man’s creations is the development of a grand
character—and a grand character is....the product of probationary
discipline....

 —Austin Phelps

 Many men build character as cathedrals were built, the part nearest the
ground finished; but that part which soars toward heaven, the turrets
and the spires, forever incomplete....

 —Henry W. Beecher

 The noblest contribution which any man can make for the benefit of
posterity is that of good character....

 —Robert C. Winthrop

 It is when a man ceases to do the things he has to do and does the
things he likes to do, that the character is revealed....	 —Lin Yutang

 Be more concerned with your character than your reputation, because
your character is what you really are, while your reputation is merely
what others think you are....	 —John	Wooden

 You can’t give character to another person, but you can encourage him
to develop his own by possessing one yourself....	— Artemus Calloway

 Let us not say, Every man is the architect of his own fortune; but let
us say, Every man is the architect of his own character....	— George
Boa rdma n

 Choices lead to action; action forms habits; habits solidify into
character....If character grows out of the spiritual vision of oneness
and brotherliness, it will lead us to ultimate union with the
infinite....	— Sathya Sai Baba

 There is nothing by which men display their character so much as in
what they consider ridiculous....

 —Johann W. Goethe

 The best characters are made by vigorous and persistent resistance to
evil tendencies....	— Henry M. Dexter

 It takes character to stay in one place and be happy there....

 —Elizabeth C. Dunn

 Character is like a tree—it will always fall in the direction it
leans....

 —Shantidasa

 Character cannot be counterfeited, nor can it be put on and cast off as
if it were a garment to fit the whim of the moment. Day by day we become
what we do. This is the supreme law and logic of life....

 —Madame Chiang Kai-shek

 Character is built out of circumstances. From exactly the same
materials one man builds palaces, while another hovels....	— George H.
Lewes

 High aims form high character....

 —Tryon Edwards

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Character	*	52	*	Character

 	<*p.	

 Character is a strange blending of flinty strength and pliable
warmth....

 —Robert Schaffer

 A  man may die, but his character remains. His thoughts remain. It is
the character that gives real force and power to man. Character is
power....

 —Sivananda

 No man, for any considerable period, can wear one face to himself, and
another to the multitude, without finally getting bewildered as to which
may be the true....

 —Nathaniel Hawthorne

 Character is that which lives and abides, and is admired long after its
possessor has left the earth....

 —John Todd

 Character is what God and the angels know of us; reputation is what men
and women think of us....

 —Horace Mann

 Our character is but the stamp on our souls of the free choices of good
and evil we have made through life....

 —John C. Geikie

 No amount of ability is of the slightest avail without honor....

 —Andrew Carnegie

 When wealth is lost, nothing is lost; when health is lost, something is
lost; when character is lost, all is lost....

 —German proverb

 The aphorism, “As a man thinketh in his heart, so he is,” embraces
the whole of man’s being. It is so comprehensive that it reaches out
to every condition and circumstance of life. A man is literally what he
thinks. His character is the sum of his thoughts....

 —James Allen

 Character is the governing element of life, and is above genius....

 —Frederick Saunders

 If you wish to know the character of a man, confer upon him a little
authority....	— Shantidasa

 Character is the spiritual house in which we live....	— Faith Baldwin

 As  the sun is best seen at its rising and setting, so man’s native
dispositions are clearest seen when they are children, and when they are
dying....

 —Robert Boyle

 There is a broad distinction between character and reputation, for one
may be destroyed by slander, while the other can never be harmed save by
the possessor....	— Josiah Holland

 Fame is a vapor, popularity an accident, riches take wings, those who
cheer today will curse tomorrow, only one thing endures—character....

 —Horace Greeley

 Character may be manifested in the great moments, but it is made in the
small ones....	— Phillips Brooks

 Character is the total of thousands of small daily strivings to live up
to the best that is in us....	— Arthur Trudeau

 Character isn’t built on ease, success, a million dollars or a happy
life. Mainly through pain, sorrow and adversity are the bricks fashioned
which can erect an enduring edifice....

 —Alfred A. Montapert

 Character is that which can do without success....	— Ralph W. Emerson

 A  man’s character is his guardian divinity....Character is
destiny.... — Heraclitus

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890       shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890  
Character	*	.

 Talent develops in quiet, character in the torrent of the world....

 —Johann W. Goethe

 A man never discloses his own character so clearly as when he describes
another’s....	 —Jean P. Richter

 Character is the ability to carry out a good resolution long after the
emotion of the moment has passed....

 —Cavett Robert

 A  man’s reputation is the opinion people have of him; his character
is what he really is....	 —Jack Miner

 Out of our beliefs are born deeds. Out of our deeds we form habits; out
of our habits grow our character; and on our character we build our
destinations....

 —Dean H. Hancock

 A  man’s true estate of power and riches, is to be himself; not in
his dwelling, or position or external relations, but in his own
essential character....

 —Henry W. Beecher

 There is nothing more esteemed than a....decision of character. I like
a person who knows his own mind and sticks to it; who sees at once what,
in given circumstances, is to be done, and does it....

 —William Hazlitt

 To be worth anything, character must be capable of standing firm upon
its feet in the world of daily work, temptation and trial....	 —Samuel
Smiles

 It is our duty to compose our character, not to compose books; and to
win, not battles and provinces, but order and tranquility for our
conduct of life....

 —Michel Montaigne

 Integrity has no need of rules....

 —Albert  Camus

 > ♦?	 Charity

 The encrusted character cannot be melted: it is too late. It has been
fused, and has hardened again. It cannot be fused again. It must all be
broken away....	 —Robert Benson

 Character is the sum of what a person has left after losing everything
else....

 —Shantidasa

 There is nothing so fatal to character as half-finished tasks....

 —David L. George

 You can tell the character of every man when you see how he receives
praise....

 —Seneca

 *

  Charity 

 O

 ne should never expect any otherreward from charity than the sat-

 isfaction it gives....  —Darryl F. Zanuck

 The white man knows how to make everything, but he does not know how to
distribute it....	 —Sitting Bull

 Expect no reward for an act of charity. Expecting something in return
leads to a scheming mind....	 —Kyong Ho

 There are two kinds of charity, remedial and preventive. The former is
often injurious in its tendency; the latter is always praiseworthy and
beneficial....

 —Tryon Edwards

 God reveals Himself to man, in man and by man. His true worship is
Charity. Dogmas and rites alter and succeed one another; charity does
not change and its power is eternal....

 —Eliphas Levi

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Charity

 Charity is the power of defending that which we know to be
indefensible....

 — G. K. Chesterton

 How shall we expect charity toward others, when we are uncharitable to
ourselves?...	— Thomas Browne

 Charity is neither weak nor blind. It is essentially prudent, just,
temperate and strong....	— Thomas Merton

 Be careful not to parade your good deeds before men to attract their
attention; by doing so you will lose all reward....when you give alms do
not have it trumpeted before you....

 —Jesus

 Our strength will be found in our charity....	— Betty J. Eadie

 There is only one way of being charitable to another and that is
quietly, with no strings attached....	— Shantidasa

 That charity is bad which takes from independence its proper pride, and
from mendacity its proper shame....

 —Robert Southey

 Money spent on ourselves may be a millstone about the neck; spent on
others it may give us wings like eagles....

 —Roswell Hitchcock

 Charity is never lost: it may meet with ingratitude, or be of no
service to those on whom it was bestowed, yet it ever does a work of
beauty and grace upon the heart of the giver....

 —Conyers Middleton

 54

 ■? nsp? ■?

 Charity begins at home....

 -Terence

 The charities that soothe, and heal, and bless, lie scattered at the
feet of men like flowers....	— William Wordsworth

 =Jte>

 Charity

 The charitable man has found the pathof salvation. He is like a man
whoplants a sapling and thereby has shade,the flowers, and the fruit in
futureyears....	— Gautama Buddha

 If you can’t feed a hundred people,then feed just one....

 —Mother Teresa

 Be charitable and indulgent to every-one but yourself....	— Joseph Jo
ubert

 Did universal charity prevail, earthwould be a heaven, and hell a
fable....

 —Charles C. Colton

 In charity there is no excess; neitherangel nor man come in danger of
it....

 —Francis Bacon

 The charity that hastens to proclaim itsgood deeds ceases to be
charity, and isonly pride and ostentation....

 —William Hutton

 The charities of life are worth morethan all ceremonies....Charity is
thatwhich equals all the other command-ments....	— The Talmud

 True charity is the desire to be useful toothers with no thought of
recom-pense....	— Emanuel Swedenborg

 Charity is the pure gold which makesus rich in eternal wealth....

 —Jean P. Camus

 When a needy person stands at yourdoor God himself stands at his
side....

 —Hebrew proverb

 Charity is, indeed, a great thing, and agift offered, and when it is
rightlyordered, likens us to God himself, as faras that is possible; for
it is charity thatmakes the man....

 —John Chrysostom

 Charity 	♦?	 55

 	  t *3P s

 Charity is love; not all love is charity....

 —Thomas Aquinas

 One act of charity will teach us more ofthe love of God than a thousand
ser-mons....	 —Frederick W. Robertson

 To feel much for others, and little forourselves; to restrain our
selfish, andexercise our benevolent affections, con-stitutes the
perfection of humannature....	— Adam Smith

 The greatest pleasure I know is to do agood action by stealth, and to
have itfound out by accident....

 —Qiarles Lamb

 He who bestows his goods upon thepoor, shall have as much again, and
tentimes more....	— John Bunyan

 The more is given the less the peoplewill work for themselves, and the
lessthey work the more the poverty willincrease....	— Leo Tolstoy

 Benevolence is allied to few vices; self-ishness to fewer virtues....

 —Henry Home

 The poor man’s charity is to wish therich man well....	— Anonymous

 Charity is injurious unless it helps therecipient to become independent
ofit....	— John D. Rockefeller

 To give alms is nothing unless you givethought also....A little thought
and a lit-tle kindness are often worth more thana great deal of
money....

 —John Ruskin

 The man who refuses to live within hismeans, but seeks to be
supplementedby charity, must not be helped....

 —The Talmud

 Charity

 The best way to do good to ourselves is to do it to others; the right
way to gather is to scatter....	— Seneca

 Nothing is more pleasing to God than a open hand and a closed mouth....

 —Francis Quarles

 Good deeds ring clear through heaven like a bell....	— Jean Paid
Richter

 The highest charity of all occurs when we have become so pure and
perfect we become mediums of God’s love in such a way that His love
passes through us without our knowing, or without knowingly having done
a thing....

 —Bernadette Roberts

 Where there is charity and wisdom, there is neither fear nor
ignorance....

 —Francis of Assisi

 Charity is a virtue of the heart, and not of the hands....	— Joseph
Addison

 If you don’t have charity in your heart, you have the worst kind of
heart trouble....	— Bob Hope

 Charity is patient, is kind, feels no envy, is never perverse or proud
or insolent; it has no selfish aims, cannot be provoked, does not brood
over an injury; it takes no pleasure in wrongdoing but rejoices over
victory of the truth....	— Mother Teresa

 Charity brings to life again those who are spiritually dead....

 —Thomas Aquinas

 Charity is giving someone bread, not a lecture....	— Anonymous

 True charity is always gentle as well as benevolent, for it consists as
much in the manner of doing kindness as in the deed itself....	— Allan
Kardec

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Charity	*	.

 The task of feeding the hungry, quenching the thirsty, clothing the
naked and healing the sick shows magnanimity of character. But it must
be remembered that such charity is only a temporary measure....	—
Shantidasa

 Charity with a smile shows the donor’s character....	— Nachman
ofBratslav

 Give work rather than alms to the poor. The former drives out
indolence, the latter industry....	— Tryon Edwards

 The more charity, the more peace....

 —Hillel

 He that giveth to the poor, lendeth to the Lord....	— Thomas Browne

 To pity distress is but human; to relieve it is Godlike....	— Horace
Mann

 Your charity is not genuine if your words, no matter how true, are not
charitable....	 —Jean	P. Camus

 Charity is the queen of virtues. As the pearls are held together by the
thread, thus the virtues by charity; and as the pearls fall when the
thread breaks, thus the virtues are lost if charity diminishes....	—
Padre Pio

 The noblest charity is to prevent a man from accepting charity; and the
best alms are to show and to enable a man to dispense with alms....

 —The Talmud

 m

  Children 

 P

 arents wonder why the streamsare bitter, when they themselves

 have spoiled the fountain....

 —John Locke

 i ♦?	 Children

 Nothing you do for your children is ever wasted. They seem not to
notice us, hovering, averting our eyes, and they seldom offer thanks,
but what we do for them is never wasted....

 —Garrison Keillor

 Death cannot be hidden from children. The parent who tries to protect a
child from the experience of death is only adding confusion and anxiety
to an already difficult world....

 —Robert W. Buckingham

 Teach the child that it will not have to worry over the future; that it
will not have to lie, cheat, steal, murder or take any advantage of its
fellow human beings in order to receive its share of the good things of
life....

 —Alfred Lawson

 If you think you are your body, then you think that your children’s
bodies are extensions of your body. But they are a gift, just like your
body is a gift. We don’t own them, nor can we control them....	—
Stephen Levine

 Children are like little plants. If they grow too close together, they
become thin and sickly and never attain maximum growth. We need room to
grow....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 Children learn about their world through their play....

 —Susan Partnow

 It’s easier for a father to have children than for children to have a
real father....

 —Pope John XXIII

 What is a neglected child? He is a child not planned for, not wanted.
Neglect begins, therefore, before he is born....

 —Pearl Buck

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Children 	♦?	,

 If we could all remain children and not grow up at all, it would be
such a happy world....	— Ramana Maharshi

 One of the most obvious facts about grown-ups to a child is that they
have forgotten what it is like to be a child....

 —Randall Jarrell

 You can do anything with children if you only play with them....

 —Otto von Bismarck

 One of the most responsible things you can do as an adult is become
more of a child....	— Wayne Dyer

 A clever child brought up with a foolish one can itself become
foolish....

 —Georg C. Lichtenberg

 When dealing with the unknown, children are often bewildered by the
fact that their parents do not know all the answers....	— Edgar N.
Jackson

 The mother who gives up her life for her children does them no kindness
but rather burdens them with the legacy of a life unlived....	— Janet
Falldron

 Even a minor event in the life of a child is an event of that child’s
world and thus a world event....	— Gaston Bachelard

 The mother-child relationship is paradoxical and, in a sense, tragic.
It requires the most intense love on the mother’s side, yet this very
love must help the child grow away from the mother and become fully
independent....	— Erich Fromm

 A child is a reflection of God....

 —Nityananda

 Healthy children will not fear life if :heir elders have integrity
enough not :o fear death....	— Erik H. Erikson

 7  ♦?	 Children

 We have no power to fashion our children as suits our fancy; as they
are given by God, so must we have them and love them.... -— Johann W.
Goethe

 A child must learn very early to realize that failing is a part of
living. To lead him to believe otherwise is to deny reality....	—
Louis Binstock

 It is the attitude of a child that is necessary before we can enter the
kingdom of heaven....For then we realize that of ourselves we can do
nothing, but that it is only as we realize that is the Divine life and
power working within us....that we are or can do anything....

 —Ralph W. Trine

 If a child lives with approval, he learns to live with himself....

 —Dorothy Law Nolte

 Give a little love to a child and you get a great deal back.... —
John Ruskin

 At every step the child should be allowed to meet the real experience
of life; the thorns should never be plucked from the roses....	— Ellen
Key

 Your children are not your children. They are the sons and daughters of
Life’s longing for itself. They come through you but not from you. And
though they are with you yet they belong not to you....	— Kahlil
Gibran

 Every child comes with the message that God is not yet discouraged of
man....	— Rabindranath Tagore

 So long as one does not become simple like a child, one does not get
divine illumination. Forget all the worldly knowledge that you have
acquired and become as ignorant as a child, and then you will get the
divine wisdom....	— Ramakrishna

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Children	*	58	*	Children

     	

 A child who is protected from all controversial ideas is as vulnerable
as a child who is protected from every germ. The infection, when it
comes— and it will come—may overwhelm the system, be it the immune
system or the belief system....	— Jane Smiley

 Limiting a child’s behavior does not mean that we should be
discourteous to them....	— Walter C. Alvarez

 Except ye become as a little child ye shall not enter the kingdom of
heaven....	— Jesus

 Children are so beautiful....They’re so original, so independent.
They’re everything you wish adults were. But adults are consistently
herd-minded, conformant, subject to group pressure. They’re moving in
the wrong direction. They’re moving away from individualism toward the
herd....	— Allen Funt

 Up to a certain age the child has a perfect trust in its parents to
supply it with food, clothing and shelter. When it is obliged to provide
for itself the trouble begins....Then it trusts hardly anything. That
may be the cause of all our trouble, wakefulness included....

 —Prentice Mulford

 With children we must mix gentleness with firmness. They must not
always have their own way, but they must not always be thwarted....

 —Charles Spurgeon

 The child must know that he is a miracle, a miracle that since the
beginning of the world there hasn’t been, and until the end of the
world there will not be another child like him. He is a unique thing, a
unique thing from the beginning until the end of the world....

 —Pablo Casals

 The great man is he who does not lose his child’s heart....	—
Menicus

 It is the child who is full and the man who is empty, empty as an empty
gourd and as an empty barrel. Now then, children, go to school. And you
men, go to the school of life. Go and learn how to unlearn....

 —Charles Peguy

 In every man there is a child hidden— it wants to come out....

 —Friedrich W. Nietzsche

 You are children of the living God. What then is your inheritance? Is
it less than the Fathers? It cannot be....

 —Frater Achad

 Children are God’s apostles—sent forth day by day, to preach of
love, and hope and peace....	-— James Russell Lowell

 A  child is not your ego, it is not a pet dog in the house, it is not a
substitute for love. A child has nothing to do with that. A child is
born to you so that you can prepare him to face time unto eternity....
— Yogi Bhajan

 Man is most nearly himself when he achieves the seriousness of a child
at play....	— Heraclitus

 One of the sad things about growing up is that as adults we often lose
our ability to pretend, to imagine. To the young child, imagination is a
magic door that leads to thrills, excitement and happiness....	 —Eric
Butterworth

 This is a truth that children know: If you want joy, go back to your
creative enthusiasm. Refuse to make life work of anything you cannot
fill with magic....	— David Seaburi

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Children 	♦?

 There are two lasting bequests we can hope to give our children. One of
these is roots; the other, wings....

 —Hodding Carter

 Never fear spoiling children by making them happy. Happiness is the
atmosphere in which all good affections grow....	 —Ann Liza Bray

 If you don’t teach the ox to plow when he is young, it will be
difficult to teach him when he is grown....	 —Midrash

 Childhood and genius have the same master-organ in
common—inquisitiveness....	 —Edwin Bulwer-Lytton

 When we are no longer children, we are already dead....

 —Constantin Brancusi

 Sometimes we’re so concerned about giving our children what we never
had growing up, we neglect to give them what we did have growing up....

 —James Dobson

 A  child becomes an adult when he realizes that he has a right not only
to be right but also to be wrong....

 —Thomas Szasz

 What God is to the world, parents are to their children....	 —Philo

 A child is as sensitive to outside influences and forces as a
seismograph is sensitive to an earthquake which is ten thousand miles
away....

 —Luther Burbank

 Thildren live in a world of imagination ind feelings. They invest the
most nsignificant object with any form they )lease, and see in it
whatever they wish osee....	 —Adam Oehlenschlager

 59  ♦?	 Children

 	

 Zen is to have the heart and soul of a little child....	 —Takuan

 As a child learning to walk falls a thousand times before he can stand,
and after that falls again and again until at last he can walk, so are
we as little children before God....

 —Hazrat Inayat Khan

 The joy of raising children is the joy of giving. This is giving in the
purest form. You don’t give with any ulterior motive involved—you
just do it for the child....	 —Gary Emery

 What is childhood but a series of happy delusions?...	 —Sydney Smith

 Children who are not loved in their very beginnings do not know how to
love themselves....  —Marion Woodman

 Be guided by children’s questions, for they will teach you, and they
will not be content with half-truths. It is true you cannot answer them
all, for children ask questions which nobody can answer....	 —Froebel

 What is a child? An experiment. A fresh attempt to produce the just
man....that is to make humanity divine....And if you should try to shape
this new being in your idea of a godly man or a godly woman, you will
destroy its own holiest expectation and perhaps create a monster....	
—George B. Shaw

 Do not confine your children to your own learning, for they were born
of another time....	 —Hebrew proverb

 Children need love, especially when they do not deserve it....

 —Harold S. Hubert

 If children grew up according to early indications, we should have
nothing but geniuses....	 —Johann W. Goethe

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Children	* 	i

 The first duty to children is to make them happy. If you have not made
them so, you have wronged them. No other good they may get can make up
for that....	— Charles Buxton

 After all, what is God? An eternal Child playing an eternal game in the
eternal garden....	— Aurobindo Ghose

 Hard words bruise the heart of a child....	— Henry W. Longfellow

 Society wants kids to grow up more quickly. It offers them rewards for
being more and more adultlike in their behavior rather than childlike.
Adults need to reassure them that play—their own unique, imaginative
play—is something to be valued....	— Fred Rogers

 Grown men may learn from very little children, for the hearts of little
children are pure, and therefore, the Great Spirit may show to them many
things which older people miss....	— Black Elk

 When childhood dies, its corpses are called adults....	— Brian Addiss

 God sends children for another purpose than merely to keep up the
race— to enlarge our hearts and to make us unselfish and full of
kindly sympathies and affections....	— Mary Howitt

 Children are naturally spiritual....Children are naive mystics....

 —John Bradshaw

 Know for certain that Nature is wonderfully simple; and that the
characteristic mark of a childlike simplicity is stamped upon all that
is true and noble in Nature....  —Michael Sendivogius

 If you can’t hold children in your arms, please hold them in your
heart....

 —Mother Clara Hale

 I ♦?	 Children

 You cannot teach a child to take care of himself unless you will let
him try to take care of himself. He will make mistakes and out of these
mistakes will come his wisdom....

 —Henry W. Beecher

 Words are more powerful than perhaps anyone suspects, and once deeply
engraved in a child’s mind, they are not easily eradicated....	— May
Sarton

 Of all people, children are the most imaginative....	— Thomas B.
Macaulay

 Feel the dignity of a child. Do not feel superior to him, for you are
not....

 —Robert Henri

 When I was a child, I spoke as a child, I understood as a child, I
thought as a child. When I became a man, I put away childish things.... 
—Paul of Tarsus

 To endure is the first thing that a child ought to learn, and that
which he will have most need to know....

 —Jean J. Rousseau

 The best way to make children good is to make them happy....

 —Oscar Wilde

 You can learn many things from children. How much patience you have,
for instance....	— Franklin P. Jones

 Children should grow up in the awareness of the brotherhood of man and
the Fatherhood of God....

 —Sathya Sai Baba

 Give me the children until they are seven and anyone can have them
afterwards....	— Francis Xavier

 Children enjoy the present because they have neither a past nor a
future....

 —Jean La Bruyere

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Children	* 	i

 Children are the creatures of example —whatever surrounding adults
do, they will do....	— Josiah Warren

 The greatest gifts you can give your children are the roots of
responsibility and the wings of independence....

 —Denis Waitley

 Children require guidance and sympathy far more than instruction....

 —Anne Sullivan

 In praising or loving a child, we love and praise not that which is,
but that which we hope for....

 —Johann W. Goethe

 Whatever parent gives his children good instruction, and sets them at
the same time bad example, may be considered as bringing them food in
one hand, and poison in another....

 —John Balguy

 Mothers give sons permission to be a prince but the father must show
him how....Fathers give daughters permission to be princesses, but the
mothers must show them how. Otherwise, both boys and girls will grow up
and always see themselves as frogs....

 —Eric Berne

 The conscience of children is formed by the influences that surround
them....

 —Jean Paul Richter

 &

  Choice 

 e cannot lead a choiceless life.Every day, every moment,

 every second, there is a choice. If itwere not so, we would not be
individu-als....	— Ernest Holmes

  I *	Choice 

 ?  	

 Far too often the choices reality proposes are such as to take away
one’s choice for choosing....	— Jean Rostand

 The great tragedy of humankind lies in its apparent freedom of choice.
Our choices are endless, but also beyond the ability of most to
distinguish between what is correct and what is absurd....In truth,
there is no choice but one—to rely upon God to make our choices....

 -—Shantidasa

 If you limit your choices only to what seems possible or reasonable,
you disconnect yourself from what you truly want, and all that is left
is compromise....	— Robert Fritz

 By choosing we learn to be responsible. By paying the price of our
choices we learn to make better choices....

 —Marsha Sinetar

 The only limit put on choice is that it cannot serve two masters....

 —A Course In Miracles

 We choose our joys and sorrows long before we experience them....

 —Kahlil Gibran

 Whenever we bemoan our destiny on Earth and complain of our
ill-fortune, we are railing against our own choice; not the choice of
some arbitrary god or gods who have done us a bad turn....For we have
what we have chosen and earned....	— Stewert C. Easton

 Always there is a desire to accept some things and reject others. Who
is making this choice, and with what wisdom?...

 —Gerald May

 Our greatest power is the power of choice; our greatest freedom lies in
the exercise of our power of choice....

 —William Curtis

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Choice	*	62 	♦?	 Choice

   * Fate chooses our relatives. We choose our friends....	 —Jacques
Bossuet

 The power to define is the power to choose....	 —Michael O’Neal

 Happiness and love are just a choice away....	 —Leo Buscaglia

 Before man is life and death, good and evil, and that which he shall
choose shall be given him....

 —Old Testament

 Life is a series of choices and nobody can stop you from making your
choices....People punish themselves by making wrong choices. Constantly,
enlightenment is being offered to them, but they refuse to accept it.
Therefore, people are being taught by problems that are set before them,
since they refuse to make right choices voluntarily....	 —Peace
Pilgrim

 One does not decide in favor of one thing without deciding against
another: Nothing is ever achieved or gained without giving up
something....

 -— U. S. Anderson

 If you choose you are free; if you choose you need blame no
man—accuse no man. All things will be at one according to the mind of
God....

 —Epictetus

 The power of choosing good and evil is within the reach of all....	
—Origen

 Whatever you choose will become your experience when you believe in
your choice and have faith in the ability of Life to fulfill your
desires....

 —Jack Addington

 Life is a series of choices and sometimes your only choice is what your
attitude will be....	 —Shantidasa

 God impels nobody, for He will have no one saved by compulsion....God
has given free will to men that they may choose for themselves, either
the good or the bad....	 —Hans Dench

 Everything can be taken from a man but one thing; the last of human
freedoms—to choose one’s attitude in any given set of circumstances,
to choose one’s own way....	 —Victor Franhl

 Choose always the way that seems best, however rough it may be; custom
will soon render it easy and agreeable....

 —Pythagoras

 Life is a perpetual choice between endless pairs of rival ills. Right
choice, which will bring most happiness and least pain....is a choice
inspired by the Spirit....	 —Bhagavan Das

 Life is change....Growth is optional. Choose wisely....  —Karen K.
Clark

 We do not choose the day of our birth nor may we choose the day of our
death, yet choice is the sovereign faculty of the mind....	 —Thornton
Wilder

 No power impels us forcibly either to good or to evil.... — St. Mark,
the Ascetic

 Know how to choose well. Most of life depends thereon. It needs good
taste and correct judgement, for which neither intellect nor study
suffices....

 —Baltazar Gracian

 Happiness is a choice. Reach out for it at the moment it appears, like
a balloon drifting seaward in a bright blue sky....

 —Adair Lara

 There is a small choice in rotten apples....	 —William Shakespeare

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Choice 	♦?	i

 You don’t get to choose how you’re going to die, or when. You only
decide how you’re going to live. Now....

 —Joan Baez

 The free will of man holds a place midway between the divine Spirit and
the inordinate desires of the body....

 — St. Bernard

 Man is fully responsible for his nature and his choices....	—
Jean-Paul Sartre

 It is the choices you make that are wrong. To imagine that some little
thing—food, sex, power, fame—will make you happy is to deceive
yourself....	— Nisargadatta

 God asks no man whether he will accept life. That is not the choice.
You must take it. The only choice is how....

 —Henry W. Beecher

 Life is an endless creative experience and we are making ourselves
every moment by every decision we make....

 —Kent Nerburn

 When choices are taken away, a perfect path remains....	— Bo Lozoff

 Choice of attention—to pay attention to this and ignore that—is to
the inner life what choice of action is to the outer. In both choices
man is responsible for his choice and must accept the consequences....
— W. H. Auden

 He who does anything because it is custom, makes no choice.... — John
S. Mill

 This choice of ours, the choice between an alliance with God or a
conflict, is not made once and for all and in a moment. It is a choice
that we have to be making always....

 —Arthur Clutton-Brock

   ♦?	 Choice

 The strongest principle of growth lies in the human choice.... —
George Eliot

 It is in our power to choose the better, and likewise to choose the
worst....

 —Hermes

 Man has two roads always before him. And he must choose between them.
Two roads before his eyes, two destinies. And at each step there is a
new crossing....	 —Martin Grey

 Nature gives man corn but he must grind it; God gives man a will, but
he must make the right choices....

 —Fulton J. Sheen

 The power of choice must involve the possibility of error—that is the
essence of choosing....	— Herbert Samuel

 Always choose the right thing, for brief is your choice. It is like a
moment, but it is also eternity.... — Anonymous

 If a man does not keep pace with his companions, perhaps it is because
he hears a different drummer. Let him step to the music he hears,
however measured or far away....

 — Hem~yD. Thoreau

 Man is made or unmade by himself....By the right choice and true
application of thought, man ascends to the Divine Perfection. By the
abuse and wrong application of thought, he descends below the level of
the beast. Between these two extremes are all the grades of character,
and man is their maker and master....— Baird Spalding

 The power of choice. You have it. But you forfeit it when you imagine
that you can choose for others. You can’t. But you can choose for
yourself—from hundreds of exciting, happiness-producing
alternatives....

 —Harry Browne

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Choice	*	(

 	 c;

 Destiny is not a matter of chance; it is a matter of choice; it is not
a thing to be waited for, it is a thing to be achieved....

 —William J. Bryan

 “Many are called but few are chosen.” Who makes the choice?...only
the ones who are called....	 —Frater Achad

 Those who fail to make choices when they have the opportunity are not
necessarily backing away from the choices. They may simply not recognize
that a choice does exist....  —Gordon P. Miller

 I discovered I always have choices and sometimes it’s only a choice
of attitudes....	 —-Judith Knowlton

 Life is a series of choices and as all ideas in this manifested
universe are divided as opposites, we can choose the negative ego
approach or the positive spiritual approach....From the negative ego
approach we learn that we will suffer until we balance our actions and
bring our lives into harmony with the laws that govern the universe.
This is called the law of hard knocks or karma. With the positive
spiritual approach we choose to live in obedience to God’s will, to
live in harmony with universal laws without being pushed into it. This
can be called the school of grace....

 —Cheryl Canfield

  Conscience 

 C

 onscience is the most perfect mir-ror ever made—the one looking

 glass that cannot be broken....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 When we know the truth in our own consciences, it is unnecessary to be
troubled about anything else....

 —Madeleine de Scudery

 *	Conscience

 The conscience interprets life honestly and realistically; the same
cannot be said about the ego....	 —Shantidasa

 Real human progress depends upon a good conscience....	 —Albert
Einstein

 Everyone’s conscience....is between God and themselves, and it
belongs to none other....	 —Margaret Cavendish

 Conscience is the perfect interpreter of life....	 —Karl Barth

 The one thing that doesn’t abide by majority rule is a person’s
conscience....

 —Harper Lee

 There is no witness so dreadful, no accuser so terrible as the
conscience that dwells in the heart of every man....

 —Polybius

 The voice of conscience is so delicate that it is easy to stifle it:
but it is also so clear that it is impossible to mistake it....	
—Madame de Stael

 If you compromise with your own conscience, you will weaken your
conscience. Soon your conscience will fail to guide you and you will
never have real wealth based on peace of mind....

 —Napoleon Hill

 A man that will enjoy a quiet conscience must lead a quiet life....

 —Philip Chesterton

 Whenever conscience speaks with a divided, uncertain, and disputed
voice, it is not the voice of God. Descend still deeper into yourself,
until you hear nothing but a clear, undivided voice, a voice which does
away with doubt and brings with it persuasion, light and serenity....	
—Henri F. Amiei

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Conscience	* 	.

 When conscience is our friend, all is peace; but if once offended,
farewell to the tranquil mind....

 —Mary  W. Montagu

 A  quiet conscience makes one so serene....	— George Byron

 Cowardice asks, Is it safe? Expediency asks, Is it politic? Vanity
asks, Is it popular? but Conscience asks, Is it right?...

 —Alexander Punshon

 The foundation of true joy is in the conscience....	 —Seneca

 Be the master of your will, and the slave of your conscience....

 —Yiddish saying

 I simply want to please my own conscience, which is God....

 —Mohandas Gandhi

 Conscience, as a mentor, the guide and compass of every act, leads ever
to happiness. When the individual can stay alone with his conscience and
get its approval, without knowing force or specious knowledge, then he
begins to know what real Happiness is....

 —William G. Jordan

 Blind is he who sees not his conscience; lame is he who wanders from
the right way....	— Anthony of Padua

 The Inner Guide, who works in everybody, does not tolerate other
influences than His own. And he certainly knows best....	— Lucy
Comellssen

 The torture of a bad conscience is the hell of a living soul.... —
John Calvin

 Conscience is that great beacon of light God sets in all....	— Robert
Browning

  5  ♦?	 Conscience 

 C  	

 A disciplined conscience is a man’s best friend. It may not be his
most amiable, but it is his most faithful monitor....

 —Austin Phelps

 Conscience is God’s presence in man....

 —Emanuel Swedenborg

 I am more afraid of my own heart than of the pope and all his
cardinals. I have within me the great pope, Self....

 —Martin Luther

 Conscience, the higher mind, awoke in me, shook me and questioned:
“Think —careless one! Who are you? Whose are you? I ask you: Why are
you here?”...

 —Zoroaster

 Conscience is called the adversary, because it always opposes our evil
will; it reminds us of what we ought to do but do not, and condemns us
if we do something we ought not....

 —Abba Dorotheus

 Conscience is the royalty and prerogative of every private man....

 —John Dryden

 Conscience warns us as a friend before it punishes us as a judge....

 —Leszczynski Stanislaw

 Conscience and reputation are two things. Conscience is due to
yourself, reputation to your neighbor....

 —Augustine

 The testimony of a conscience is the glory of the good man; have a good
conscience and thou shalt have gladness....

 —Thomas a Kempis

 Trust that man in nothing who has not a conscience in everything....

 —Laurence Sterne

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Conscience 	 *_

 The truth is not so much that man has a conscience, as that conscience
has man....	— Isaac Domer

 Conscience is a sacred sanctuary, where God alone has the right to
enter and judge....	— Lamennais

 The unknown is an ocean. What is conscience? The compass of the
unknown....	— Joseph Cook

 Conscience is God to all mortals....

 —Menander

 Conscience is the voice of the soul, as passions are the voice of the
body. No wonder they contradict each other....

 —Jean J. Rousseau

 The paradoxical—and tragic—situation of man is that his conscience
is weakest when he needs it the most....

 —Eric Fromm

 A good conscience is a continual feast....

 —Richard E. Burton

 If you are honest with yourself, conscience will make known your
character....	— Edward Pay son

 A good conscience is to the soul what health is to the body; it
preserves constant ease and serenity within us, and more than
countervails all the calamities and afflictions which can befall us
without....	— Joseph Addison

 Conscience is nothing else but the echo of God’s voice within the
soul....

 — E. B. Hall

 Conscience is the root of all free courage; if a man would be brave,
let him obey his conscience....

 —James F. Clark

 i ♦?	 Consciousness

 In matters of conscience, the law of majority has no place....

 —Mohandas Gandhi

 There is a difference between him who does no misdeeds because of his
own conscience and he who is kept from wrongdoing because of the
presence of others....	— The Talmud

 A  man’s conscience and his judgement are the same thing....

 —Thomas Hobbes

 Man’s conscience is the oracle of God....

 —George Byron

 There is always a voice saying the right thing to you somewhere, if
you’ll only listen for it....	— Thomas Hughes

 The only religion is conscience in action....	— Henry D. Lloyd

 Conscience emphasizes the word “ought.”...	— Joseph Cook

 Conscience: the soft whisper of God in man....	— Edward Young

 God leaves to our conscience the choice of the road we decide to
follow, and the liberty of yielding to one or other of the opposing
influences that act upon us....

 —Allan Kardec

 &

  Consciousness 

 T

 here’s something queer aboutdescribing consciousness: whatev-

 er people mean to say, they just can’tseem to make it clear....How
could any-thing seem so close, yet always keepbeyond our reach?...

 —Marvin Minsky

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Consciousness	*	67	*	Consciousness

 The chief delusion of man is his conviction that there are other causes
at work in his life than his own states of consciousness. All that
happens to him, all that is done by him, comes to him as a result of his
states of consciousness....

 -—Paul Twitchell

 A lake that is absolutely calm gives to you a perfect reflection. The
moment it becomes disturbed in the least, the reflection is distorted;
and if the agitation is increased, the reflection will be completely
lost. Your consciousness is the lake....	 —James B. Schafer

 Consciousness reigns but doesn’t govern....	 —Paul Valery

 A person is but consciousness. Even if a hundred bodies perish,
consciousness does not perish. Consciousness is like space, but it
exists as if it is the body. The infinite appears to be divided into
infinite parts, with and without form. This is because countless
particles of experiences shine within that consciousness....	 —Yoga
Vasistha

 There is no world, there are no men, there are no women, there is no
sin, and there is no illusion. What we see is nothing but the supreme
play of cosmic consciousness....	 —Anonymous

 Mystical consciousness is a state of insight into the depths of truth
unplumbed by the discursive intellect....	 —William James

 It is impossible that consciousness can ever come to an end. Hence,
there must be rebirth. Otherwise, what happens to the....individual soul
after it shakes off the physical body? It must exist in a different form
of consciousness suited to its further growth into greater fullness....	
—Sivananda

 We live, breath, and die by a miracle, one phase of existence not being
any more than another, for consciousness is our true nature....  —A
Spiritual Warrior

 There is nothing about any level of consciousness that is right or
wrong, good or bad, pure or evil....

 —Ken Keyes, Jr.

 The crisis is in our consciousness, not in the world....	— J.
Krishnamurti

 In the long run, no one can retain what does not belong to him by right
of consciousness, nor be deprived of that which is truly his by the same
supreme title....	 —Emmet Fox

 There is no coming into consciousness without pain....	 —Carl Jung

 Science’s biggest mystery is the nature of consciousness....	 —Nick
Herbert

 Any addiction is a falling into unconsciousness....	 —Marion Woodmaii

 Consciousness is all there is, and whatever appears or happens is
merely a movement of consciousness....Consciousness is where God
abides....

 —Ramesh Balsekar

 All that befalls a man, all that is done by him, all that comes from
him, happens as a result of his state of consciousness....	 —Darwin
Gross

 Everything exists in Consciousness, and Consciousness exists in
Everything....	— Vayu-Purana

 There is individual consciousness and from there, group consciousness
and then we reach universal consciousness. The aim of man is to reach
universal consciousness....	 —Yogi Bhajan

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Consciousness	*	68	*	Consciousness

 	 ‘Sp’		

 There is only one consciousness, equally distributed everywhere. You,
through illusion, give it unequal distribution. (There is) no
distribution, no everywhere.... — Ramana Maharshi

 Consciousness is the way emptiness knows itself....	— Stephen H.
Wolinsky

 There can be nothing but consciousness. Tell me any place where there
is no consciousness; there is no place beyond consciousness. Or can
anyone prove in any manner anything outside consciousness? Consciousness
is inescapable....	— Tripura Rahasya

 God’s Garment, Nature, changes hues and forms, moment to moment,
tireless, ceaselessly; His Consciousness continues ever the same....

 — Sankhya-yoga

 When games and gratifications quickly cease to satisfy, the pilgrim can
make rapid progress in consciousness....

 —Sunyata

 Consciousness is never experienced in the plural, only in the
singular....

 —Erwin Schrodinger

 The unconsciousness of man is the consciousness of God....

 —Henry D. Thoreau

 Consciousness means freedom from attachment....You realize that the
only thing you have to do is to keep yourself really straight, and then
do whatever it is you do....	— Baba Ram Dass

 Modern physics has eliminated the notion of substance....Mind is the
first and most direct thing in our experience....I regard consciousness
as fundamental....! regard matter as a derivation of Consciousness....

 —Arthur Eddington

 The world is painted on your screen of consciousness and is entirely
your private world....Once you realize that the world is your own
projection, you are free of it....	— Nisargadatta

 All consciousness reacts to recognition favorably....	— Anonymous

 Little ought you to care who you are; the urgent thing is what you will
be. The being that you are is but an unstable, perishable being, which
eats of the earth and which the earth some day will eat; what you will
be is an idea of you in God, the Consciousness of the universe....

 —Miguel de Yunamunojugo

 Our understanding is limited by the perspective of our consciousness
and, in most cases, our consciousness is lenslike. It distorts reality
by narrowing down the picture.... — Vilayat I. Khan

 Consciousness of our powers increases them....

 —Luc de Clapiers Vauvenargues

 I shall now state clearly the profound secret....Understand that when
the ego dies and the real Self is realized as the One reality, then
there remains only that real Self, which is pure Consciousness....	—
Ramana Maharshi

 When you have achieved the consciousness that God is in you, with you,
for you, that awareness must reshape every thought, word and deed, and
make you wish good, speak good, and do good....	— Sathya Sai Baba

 That consciousness perishes at the time of death of the physical body
is a childish idea. Consciousness is eternal and it persists beyond
death. In man the consciousness is veiled by mind and matter. Therefore,
he is not able to realize his essential, divine nature....	— Sivananda

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Consciousness	*	69	*	Contentment

   ** When we quit thinking primarily about ourselves and our own
self-preservation, we undergo a truly heroic transformation of
consciousness....

 —Joseph Campbell

 When a man has true knowledge, he feels everything is filled with
consciousness....	— Ramakrishna

 What you appear to be is the outer body; what you are is
consciousness....

 —Nisargadatta

 &

  Contentment 

 M

 an is the only animal that canbe bored, who can be discon-

 tented, that can feel evicted from par-adise....	— Erich Fromm

 Neither circumstances nor surround-ings can bring contentment. Only
byfitting ourselves to meet conditions asthey are, calmly and
courageously, maywe hope to reconcile ourselves to ourposition and
conditions of life....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 Contentment with the divine will is thebest remedy we can apply to
misfor-tunes....	— William Temple

 It is far more important to be contentwith what is actually happening
than toget upset over what might be happen-ing but isn’t....	— John
Heider

 If you remain utterly content, you mayeasily escape the grasp of harm.
Plea-sures entwined by desire beget troubleat every step....	— Tibetan
saying

 A  man is content if he can find happi-

 ness in simple pleasures....

 —Thomas Malloy

 Contentment is a modest, prudent spirit; and....for the most part she
avoids the high places of the earth, where the sun burns and the
tempests beat, and leads her favorites along quiet vales to sequestered
fountains....

 -—Catharine M. Sedgwick

 Contentment can never make you idle. It is a Sattvic (pure) virtue that
propels man towards God. It gives strength of mind and peace. It checks
unnecessary and selfish exertions. It opens the inner eye of man and
moves his mind towards divine contemplation....

 —Sivananda

 All the discontented people I know are trying sedulously to be
something they are not, to do something they cannot do....	— David
Grayson

 Contentment has the ability to squeeze out of every situation all the
good there is to get....	— Shantidasa

 We can never be fully satisfied but in God....	— Tryon Edwards

 A man whose heart is not content is like a snake which tries to swallow
an elephant....	— Chinese proverb

 You traverse the world in search of happiness which is within the reach
of every man; a contented mind confers it all....	— Horace

 No one can be poor that has enough, nor rich, that covets more than he
has....	— Seneca

 Never coddle a malcontent....

 —Peter Baida

 The best way to lead a peaceful life is to be content with the
situation in which God places us. We seek changes and the result is we
get into a worse hole than the previous one....	— Papa Ramdas

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065    Contentment 	♦?	 70 

 	 **ps Contentment is natural wealth, luxury is artificial poverty....
— Socrates

 Contentment is a pearl of great price, and whosoever procures it at the
expense of ten thousand desires makes a wise and happy purchase....

 —John Balguy

 I am always content with what happens; for I know that what God chooses
is better than what I choose....

 —Epictetus

 A contented mind is the greatest blessing a man can enjoy in this
world....

 —Joseph Addison

 You never know what is enough unless you know what is more than
enough....

 —William Blake

 He who with little is well content is rich indeed as a king; and a
king, in his greatness, is poor as the peddler, when his kingdom
sufficeth him not....

 —Shekel Hakoodesh

 We are made for God and will be dissatisfied until we have God in our
hearts....	— Augustine

 In whatever state I find myself, I have learned to be content....

 —Paul of Tarsus

 Contentment consists not in adding more fuel, but in taking away some
fire; not in multiplying of wealth, but in subtracting men’s
desires....Generally those who boast most of contentment have least of
it. Their very boasting shows they want something and basely beg it,
namely commendation....	— Thomas Fuller

 When we have not what we like, we must like what we have....

 — Bussy-Rabutin

  Contentment 

 Discontent in most people’s lives is caused by wishing they were
something which they are not. They are unhappy because they compare
their own life with other people’s, and in that comparison they
apparently find a lot wanting....	— Ronald Beesley

 Contentment gives a crown, where fortune hath denied it....	— John
Ford

 Blessed is he who expects nothing, for he shall never be
disappointed....

 —Alexander Pope

 The world is full of people looking for spectacular happiness while
they snub contentment....	— Doug Larson

 Our discontent is from comparison: were better states unseen, each man
would like his own....	— John Norris

 Flow with whatever may happen and let your mind be free: Stay centered
by accepting whatever you are doing. This is the ultimate....	— Chuang
Tse

 He who doesn’t accept the conditions of life sells his soul....

 —Charles Baudelaire

 What is contentment? To renounce all craving for what is not obtained
unsought and to be satisfied with what comes unsought, without being
elated or depressed ever by them—this is contentment....	— Yoga
Vasistha

 Divine discontentment is born of the spirit. It is the will toward
freedom and life, not the discontent of the desirous ego that seeks its
own aggrandizement, or the discontent of the child who clamors for small
satisfactions. It is the discontent that will not let a man rest until
he has found the creative meaning of his own individualized life....

 —Francis G. Wickes

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Contentment

 71

 •

 Contentment

 If a man is not content in the state he is in, he will not be content
in the state he would be in....	— Erskine Mason

 When a man is contented with himself and his resources, all is well.
When he undertakes to play a part on the stage, and to persuade the
world to think more about him than they do themselves, he has gotten
into a track where he will find nothing but briars and thorns, vexation
and disappointment....

 —William Hazlitt

 Happiness comes out of contentment and contentment always comes out of
service....	— Yogi Bhajan

 There are two brands of discontent: the brand that merely fosters greed
and snarling and back-biting, and the brand that inspires greater and
greater effort to reach the desired goal....

 — B. C. Forbes

 Let him who has enough ask for nothing more....	— Horace

 He knew not God and worshiped not, who displayed not contentment with
his fortune and daily bread.... — Saadi

 Learn to be pleased with everything; with wealth, so far as it makes us
beneficial to others; with power, for not having much to care for; and
with obscurity, for being unenvied....

 —Plutarch

 There is no wealth more satisfying than contentment. Eat your fill; you
cannot eat more. If you are forced to eat more, it becomes torture....

 —Sathya Sai Baba

 Discontent is like ink poured into water, which fills the whole
fountain full of blackness....	— Owen Felltham

 <•#?

 He who has known the contentment of being contented will always be
content....	— Lao-tzu

 If you have a contented mind, you have enough to enjoy life with....
— Plautus

 The fountain of contentment must spring up in the mind, and he who has
so little knowledge of human nature as to seek happiness by changing
anything but his own disposition, will waste his life in fruitless
efforts and multiply the grief he proposes to remove....	— Samuel
Johnson

 We are never more discontented with others than when we are
discontented with ourselves. The consciousness of wrongdoing makes us
irritable, and our heart in its cunning quarrels with what is outside of
it, in order that it may deafen the clamor within....

 —Henry F. Amiel

 Contentment is the Philosopher’s Stone, that turns all it touches to
gold....

 —Benjamin Franklin

 It’s not doing what you like that’s important—it’s liking what
you do....

 —Eric Butterworth

 Riches are not from abundance of worldly goods, but from a contented
mind....	— Mohammed

 If all our misfortunes were laid in one common heap, where everyone
must take an equal portion, most people would be content to take their
own and depart....	— Socrates

 Place yourself in the middle of the stream of power....place yourself
in the full center of that flood; then you are without effort impelled
to....a perfect contentment....	— Ralph W. Emerson

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Contentment 	♦?	:

 When we cannot find contentment in ourselves, it is useless to seek it
elsewhere....

 —Francois La Rochefoucauld

 A man’s discontent is his worst evil....

 —George Herbert

 To the contented, even poverty is joy. To the discontented, even wealth
is a vexation....

 —Ming Lum Paou Keen

 Contentment....comes as the infallible result of great acceptances,
great humilities—of not trying to make ourselves this or that....but
of surrendering ourselves to the fullness of life—of letting life flow
through us....

 —David Grayson

 Nothing is so bitter that a calm mind cannot find comfort in it....

 —Seneca

 &

  Courage 

 C

 ourage is the price that Lifeextracts for granting peace....

 —Amelia Earhart

 If you don’t place your foot on the rope, you’ll never cross the
chasm. Life is a risk. Change and chance are constants....	— Liz Smith

 The weak in courage are strong in cunning....	— William Blake

 We could never learn to be brave and patient if there were only joy in
the world....	— Helen Keller

 It takes great courage to break with one’s past history and stand
alone....

 —Marion Woodman

 ’ ♦?	 Courage

 A hero is no braver than an ordinary man, but he is brave five minutes
longer....	— Ralph W. Emerson

 Courage is grace under pressure....

 —Ernest Hemingway

 To persevere, trusting in what hopes one has, is courage. The coward
despairs....	— Euripides

 Courage is fear that has said its prayers....	— Anonymous

 A  man of courage is also full of faith....

 —Cicero

 To see what is right and not do it, is want of courage....	—
Confucius

 A  coward flees backward, away from new things; a man of courage flees
forward, in the midst of new things....

 —Jacques Maritain

 Courage consists not in hazarding without fear, but being resolutely
minded in a just cause....	— Plutarch

 Courage and perseverance have a magical talisman, before which
difficulties disappear and obstacles vanish....

 —John Quincy Adams

 The principal act of courage is to endure and withstand dangers
doggedly rather than to attack them....

 —Thomas Aquinas

 Courage leads starward, fear towards death....	— Seneca

 Courage is not the absence of fear but the ability to carry on with
dignity in spite of it....	— Scott Turow

 Nothing but courage can guide life....

 —Luc de Clapiers Vauvenargues

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Courage

 To be loved, and to love, need courage; the courage to judge certain
values as of ultimate concern—and to take the jump and stake
everything on these values 	— Erich Fromm

 Until the day of his death, no man can be sure of his courage....

 —Jean Anouilh  Fortune favors the bold....

 —Virgil

 Talk courage, think courage, act courageously. The opposite course will
surely cause you to have more mental burdens than you can carry....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 Courage is almost a contradiction in terms. It means a strong desire to
live taking the form of a readiness to die....

 —G.  K. Chesterton

 Never undertake anything for which you wouldn’t have the courage to
ask the blessings of heaven....

 —Georg C. Lichtenberg

 Courage is fear holding on a minute longer....	— George S. Patton

 If you are afraid of water, you cannot cross the river even by boat. If
you are afraid of fire, you cannot even cook a meal. For anything to be
done, first you must have courage....

 —Nityananda

 Courage is doing what you’re afraid to do. There can be no courage
unless you’re scared....	— Eddie Richenbacker

 Courage is resistance to fear, mastery of fear, not absence of fear....

 —Mark Twain

 When there is no adversary, what avails thy courage?...	— Rumi

 73 *	Courage

 ‘SP? 	

 Perfect courage means doing unwitnessed what one would be capable of
doing before the whole world....

 —Francois La Rochefoucauld

 Courage is contagious: When brave men take a stand, the spines of
others are stiffened....	— Billy Graham

 Courage is the first of human qualities because it is a quality which
guarantees the others....	— Winston Churchill

 A  man with outward courage dares to die; A man with inward courage
dares to live....	— Lao-tzu

 A man without courage is like a dead man. Life without courage is no
life....

 —Babaji

 Courage is very important. Like a muscle, it is strengthened by use....

 —Ruth Gordon

 A  decent boldness ever meets with friends....	— Homer

 A  great deal of talent is lost to the world for the want of a little
courage....

 —Sydney Smith

 We must build dikes of courage to hold back the flood of fear....

 —Martin L. King, Jr.

 Life shrinks or expands in proportion to one’s courage....	— Anais
Nin

 If the creator had a purpose in equipping us with a neck, he surely
meant us to stick it out....	— Arthur Koestler

 Have courage to use your own reason! That is the motto of
enlightenment....

 —Immanuel Kant

 One man with courage makes a majority....	— Andrew Jackson

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Courage

 You cannot discover new horizons unless you have the courage to lose
sight of the shore....	— Anonymous

 Courage may be taught, as a child is taught to speak....	— Euripides

 The greatest test of courage on earth is to bear defeat without losing
heart....

 —Robert Ingersoll

 There is nothing in the world so admired as a man who knows how to bear
unhappiness with courage....

 —Seneca

 74

 ■?  sfi ps>

  Death 

 T

 here is but one freedom, to putoneself right with death. After

 that everything is possible. I cannotforce you to believe in God.
Believingin God amounts to coming to termswith death. When you have
accepteddeath, the problem of God will besolved—and not the
reverse....

 —Allbert Camus

 We survive death regardless of whether we have been good or bad. We
survive with memory, personality, and capacity for recognition....	—
Arthur Ford

 Death is going from one room to another, ultimately to the most
beautiful room....	— Mendel of Kotzk

 In reality, there is no death because you are not the body. Let the
body be there or not be there, your existence is always there; it is
eternal....	— Nisargadatta

 It is difficult to accept death in this society because it is
unfamiliar. In spite of the fact that it happens all the time, we never
see it....

 —Elisabeth Kubler-Ross

 <&>

 Death

 Death is the temporary end of a tempo-rary phenomenon....

 -—Gautama Buddha

 Death is always the great trial. The voidthat suddenly opens under our
feet. Itis useless to flee it. We must learn toface it. And also to get
around it....

 —Martin Grey

 Death as finality or extinction is only aconcept of thought, and has no
reality.Our spiritual essence will continue toflow with the whole and
ever changeand evolve. Thus, through the death ofform we evolve and find
renewal. Inform our energy radiates outward, andwe relate to this energy
vibratingaround us; but in death of form, ourenergy radiates inward as
we go backinto the center of our essence....

 —A Spiritual Warrior

 Death as the termination of life is thegreatest lie which has been
perpetratedupon mankind. For the truth is that itis quite impossible to
kill YOU. Onlythe body can die. The real YOU, as anindividual
consciousness which dwellswithin that body, is entirely beyonddeath....
— Ormond McGill

 Death is nothing at all. I have onlyslipped away into the next room. I
am Iand you are you. Whatever we were toeach other, that we are
still....

 —Henry S. Holland

 The tragedy of death....is separation,but even separation may not be
perma-nent....	— Elizabeth Gray Vining

 Life is the entrance; death is the exit....

 —Bahya Ibn Pakuda

 It is the duty of a doctor to prolong life.It is not his duty to
prolong death....

 —Thomas Horder

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Death

 75

 ‘Sp a

 Death

 Death cancels everything but truth, and strips a man of everything but
genius and virtue. It is a sort of natural canonization. It makes the
meanest of us sacred—it installs the poet in his immortality, and
lifts him to the skies....	— William Hazlitt

 People so often give up in death and that is a pity. Death is not a
tragedy to be feared, but actually it is an opportunity for
transformation....

 —Sogyal Rinpoche

 No university will teach you how to live so that when the time of dying
comes, you can say: “I lived well, I do not need to live again.”...
— Nisargadatta

 The dead are indeed happy, having gotten rid of the incubus of the
body; the dead do not grieve. Do men fear sleep? No, they court it and
prepare for it....	— Ramana Maharshi

 We should teach our children to think no more of their bodies when
dead, then they do of their hair when cut off, or of their old clothes
when they are done with them...

 —George Macdonald

 Thinking and talking about death need not be morbid; they may be quite
the opposite. Ignorance and fear of death overshadow life, while knowing
and accepting death erases this shadow....

 —Lily Pincus

 Death is not a deplorable event; it is the journey’s end, the owner
getting out of the car when the time is up and the goal is reached. It
is a consummation, a happy conclusion, or at least it ought to be, if
only all are wise enough to treat it as such and be prepared for it....

 —Sathya Sai Baba

 Death? Why the fuss about death. Use your imagination, try to visualize
a world without death....Death is an essential condition of life, not an
evil....

 —Charlotte P. Gilman

 Death, when we consider it closely, is the true goal of our existence.
I have formed during the last few years such close relations with this
best and truest friend of mankind, that this image is not only no longer
terrifying to me, but is indeed very soothing and consoling! And I thank
my God for graciously granting me the opportunity....of learning that
death is the key which unlocks the door to our true happiness....

 —Wolfgang A. Mozart

 Death is the liberator of him whom freedom cannot release, the
physician of him whom medicine cannot cure, and the comforter of him
whom time cannot console....	— Ovaries C. Colton

 The call of death is a call of love. Death can be sweet if we answer to
the affirmative, if we accept it as one of the great eternal forms of
life and transformation....	-— Hermann Hesse

 Death is a part of life not to be shunned or dreaded or feared, but to
be welcomed with a glad and ready smile when it comes in its own good
way and time....	— Ralph W. Trine

 The wise man is never surprised by death: he is always ready to
depart....

 —Jean La Fontaine

 Never say about anything, “I have lost it,” but only “I have
given it back.” Is your child dead? It has been given back. Is your
wife dead? She has been returned....	— Epictetus

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Death

 ♦?  76

    e  Death

 Death is a doorway to another reality....

 —Barbara Harris

 The calls of death are always for the best, for we are solving problems
there as well as here; and one is sure to find himself where he can
solve his problems best....	— The Aquarian Gospel

 Sleep is temporary death. Death is longer sleep. Why should one desire
continuance of body shackles? Let the man find out his undying Self and
be immortal....	— Ramana Maharshi

 In death is always a new life....

 —Amar Jyoti

 Death is the last adventure....

 —Daniel Brinkley

 The fear of death is indeed the pretense of wisdom, and not real
wisdom, being a pretense of knowing the unknown; and no one knows
whether death, which men in their fear apprehend to be the greatest
evil, may not be the greatest good....	— Plato

 Only the dead are free, the chain is broken....but perhaps they miss
their chains?...	— Eva-Lisa Manner

 What is death? Either a transition or an end. I am not afraid of coming
to an end, this being the same as never having become; nor of
transition, for I shall never be in confinement quite so cramped
anywhere else as I am here....

 —Seneca

 Death has no terror for the righteous man....	— Allan Kardec

 We must die! These words are hard, but they are followed by a great
happiness: it is in order to be with God that we die....	— Francis de
Sales

 cjt?

 The first sign of love to God is not to be afraid of death, and to be
always waiting for it. For death unites the friend to his friend—the
seeker to the object which he seeks....	— Al-Ghazzali

 Death will always be among us. We shall never escape it. Dying is part
of the process of living. We must not fear it. We must not hide it. We
must not ignore it. We must not deny it. Death is....	— Robert W.
Buckingham

 Death is a release from the impressions of the senses, and from the
desires that make us their puppets, and from the vagaries of the mind,
and from the hard service of the flesh....

 —Marcus Aurelius

 Death is the enlightener. The essential thing concerning it must be
that it opens the closed eyes, draws down the veil of blinding
mortality, and lets the man see spiritual things....

 —Phillips Brooks

 Death is nothing to fear; the body will go, for it is part of the
manifestation, but our spirit is the undying essence of the absolute.
There is no non-existence, death is just the miraculous, wonderous
release of our spirit into a further journey of unfoldment, an evolution
within the realm that is our home....	— A Spiritual Warrior

 Death is nothing more than changing gears in the journey of life....

 —Hubert van Zeller

 The dead are not dead; life’s flag is never furled: they passed from
world to world....	— Edwin Markham

 I see clearly that there are two deaths: to cease loving and being
loved is unbearable. But to cease to live is of no consequence....	—
Voltaire

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Death 	♦?

 If you want to die happily, learn to live; if you would live happily,
learn to die....

 —Celio Calgagnini

 When we come to realize that death that crushes is but the tender clasp
of God that loves, it loses all its terror....

 —Vincent McNabb

 Do not seek death. Death will find you. But seek the road which makes
death a fulfillment....	— Dag Hammarskjold

 It is worth dying to find out what life is....	— T. S. Eliot

 Come death, if you will: you cannot divide us; you can only unite
us....

 —Franz Grillparzer

 Man loses nothing by death, but is still a man in all respects,
although more perfect than when in the body....

 —Emanuel Swedenborg

 Death would be terrifying if there were not alongside it resplendent
immortality....	— Adrien-Emanuel Roquette

 After you die, you wear what you are....

 —Teresa of Avila

 When we attempt to imagine death, we perceive ourselves as
spectators....

 —Sigmund Freud

 When you die you lose your body. That is all there is to it. Nothing
else is lost....

 — P. M. H. Atwater

 I think of death as some delightful journey that I shall take when all
my tasks are done....	— Ella Wheeler Wilcox

 King Tety has not indeed died. He has become a glorious one in the sky;
he abides in continuity....

 —Royal Egyptian Tomb, 2500 B.C.

 7 *	Death

 S Most of us act like a child in the dark when we talk of death. To
dispel that fear, we turn on a light....

 —JoAnn Kelley Smith

 The thought of death should slip from our consciousness altogether....

 —Ernest Holmes

 The attitude toward death is changing....No longer is it something to
be feared, but rather a giving of ourselves to God....	— Gifford
Howell

 You fear death because you identify with the body. If you identified
with the reality which activates the body you wouldn’t be so attached
to the clay garment—the body....	— Peace Pilgrim

 Death teaches us to live; it gives us a boundary to map our living
within. Death’s hammer breaks through the mirror separating us from
light....

 —David Meltzer

 Death is a delightful hiding-place for weary men....	— Herodotus

 Death....means no more to me than what a caterpillar experiences when
it sheds its old skin and emerges into the full light of a new day as a
butterfly....

 —David Manners

 If death did not exist, there would be an unbearable accumulation of
memories. People come and go, the memories are wiped out therefore,
there is a sense of balance....	— Nisargadatta

 Death does not come with a trumpet....

 —Danish proverb

 Death is not the end. It is the beginning. No one you are close to ever
dies. There is life everlasting; there is no such thing as
death....Death is not a termination but a transition....	— George
Anderson

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065    Death	*	78	*	Death 

 	 'ffv 	

 There is no death, because the wand of truth can change the driest
bones to living things, and bring the loveliest flowers from stagnant
ponds, and turn the most discordant notes to harmony and praise....	—
The Aquarian Gospel

 Death is no death if it raises us in a moment from darkness to light,
from weakness to strength, from sinfulness into holiness....	— Charles
Kingsley

 Dying is easy work compared with living. Dying is a moment’s
transition; living, a transaction of years....

 —Maltbie D. Babcock

 Death is the quick transition to life in another form; the putting off
of the old coat and the putting on of a new; a passing not from light to
darkness but from light to light, according as we have lived here....
— Ralph W. Trine

 In the democracy of the dead, all men are equal. The poor man is as
rich as the richest, and the rich man as poor as the pauper. The
creditor loses his usury, and the debtor is acquitted of his obligation.
There, the proud man surrenders his dignity; the politician his honors,
the worldling his pleasures; the invalid needs no physician; the laborer
rests from toil. The wrongs of time are redressed; injustice is
expiated, and the irony of fate is refuted....

 —Anonymous

 Death....is that stake one puts up in order to play the game of
life....

 —Jean Giraudoux

 We are all equal in the presence of death....	— Publilius Syrus

 Each man must die alone....

 —Blaise Pascal

 Death knocks impartially at the door of the poor man’s shop and the
prince’s palace....	— Horace

 Death in itself is nothing; but we fear to be we know not what, we know
not where....	— John Dryden

 No one who is fit to live need fear to die....To us here, death is the
most terrible word we know. But when we have tasted its reality, it will
mean to us birth, deliverance, a new creation of ourselves....	—
George S. Merriam

 Death is but another phase of the dream that existence can be
material....Man, tree, and flower are supposed to die; but the fact
remains that God’s universe is spiritual and immortal....

 —Mary Baker Eddy

 Our fear of death is like our fear that summer will be short, but when
we have had our swing of pleasures, our fill of fruit, and our swelter
of heat, we say we have had our day....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 Death cannot kill what never dies....

 —Thomas Traherne

 Asking why you have to die is like asking why you have to grow up
physically as well as spiritually. It is all part of the human
experience and upon death you go into a freer living....	— Peace
Pilgrim

 The fear of death is the most unjustified of all fears, for there’s
no risk of accident for someone who’s dead....

 —Albert Einstein

 Do not allow death to disturb you, do not let the demise of flesh be
the cause of pain or anguish. It is merely riddance of your vehicle, the
sloughing off of your clothes.	— Shantidasa

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890    Death 

 Every man knows he will die, but no man wants to believe it....

 —Yiddish saying

 Death is simply a shedding of the physical body, like the butterfly
coming out of a cocoon. It is a transition into a higher state of
consciousness, where you continue to perceive, to understand, to laugh,
to be able to grow, and the only thing you lose is something you don’t
need anymore....your physical body. It’s like putting away your winter
coat when spring comes....

 —Elisabeth Kubler-Ross

 How foolish to cling to life when God has ordained otherwise....

 —Jorge Manrique

 The only thing we can take with us from this life is the good that we
have done to others....	— Betty J. Eadie

 Death is a black camel that kneels at every man’s door....

 —Turkish proverb

 To be born is to begin to die; the end is linked to the beginning....

 —Manilus

 Life is a great surprise, I do not see why death should not be a
greater one....

 —Vladimir Nabokov

 We think of death as ending, let us rather think of death as beginning
and that more abundantly. We think of losing, let us think of gaining.
We think of parting, let us think of meeting. We think of going away,
let us think of arriving....	— Norman Macleod

 The event of death is always astonishing; our philosophy never reaches,
never possesses it; we are always at the beginning of our catechism;
always the definition is yet to be made. What is death?...	— Ralph W.
Emerson

  79  ♦?	 Death 

  Man’s knowledge that he has to die isalso man’s knowledge that he
is abovedeath....	— Paul Tillich

 Death is the bright side of life....

 —Alfred L. Tennyson

 I often feel that death is not the enemyof life, but it is our friend,
for it is theknowledge that our years are limited,which makes them so
precious....

 —Joshua Liebman

 Death is not to be feared. It is a friend.No man dies before his hour.
The timeyou leave behind was no more yoursthan that which was before
your birthand concerneth you no more. Makeroom for others as others have
done foryou. Like a full-fed guest, depart torest....	— Michel
Montaigne

 Death does not end all. Death does notmean total annihilation. Death
does notend the chain or sequence. The work-ing agent, the Soul in the
body, doesnot and cannot die with the death ofthe body. Man’s Soul is
immortal. Justas a person lays aside his overcoat, soalso he lays aside
the physical body atdeath....	— Sivananda

 Were we to live forever, then indeedpeople would not feel the pity
forthings. Truly the beauty of life is itsuncertainty....	— Yoshida
Kenko

 To have a peaceful death and be able tomove from this existence to
another, oneneeds to be free from all human relation-ships....	— Jo
Aim Kelley Smith

 Death is a friend of ours; and he that isnot ready to entertain him is
not athome....Happy is he who dies before hecalls for death to take him
away....

 —Francis Bacon

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Death 	♦?	 ,

 Death is an event whereby the body disappears in one way or
another—buried or cremated—and the breath in the body ceases and
mingles with the air outside, and consciousness which had trapped itself
within a body (and had identified itself with it) is released and
becomes the universal consciousness, like a drop of rain water falling
in the river....	— Ramesh Balsekar

 Death is not the end of things. Death can be spoken only of the body.
The soul is eternal, undying and indestructible. Every death wrung out
by the fire of a lofty ideal liberates the soul into the knowledge of
its immortality—a kingdom of absolute peace and bliss....

 —Papa Ramdas

 Death....is but a passing through a dark entry, out of one little dusky
room in our Father’s house into another that is far and large,
lightsome and glorious, and divinely entertaining....

 —McDonald Clarke

 Death becomes a marker, a motivator for living one’s limited time
fully....

 —David K. Reynolds

 Death is a law, not a punishment....

 — Jean-Baptiste Dubos

 Death is not the final accounting. It is merely a time to take
inventory of ourselves....	— Anonymous

 Dying is hard under any circumstances, but dying in the familiar
surroundings at one’s home with those you love and who love you, can
take away much of the fear....	— Elisabeth Kubler-Ross

 The things we now esteem fixed shall, one by one, detach themselves,
like ripe fruit, from our experience, and fall....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 ) ♦?	 Death

 It is through death, the daily dying, that the soul has a gradual
rising to the consciousness of God. It is a gradual liberation and
self-discovery of the divine germ within the self. Physical death is an
insignificant thing, about as significant as the breaking of a
string....

 —Paul Twitchell

 In the last analysis it is our conception of death which decides our
answers to all the questions that life puts to us....

 —Dag Hammarskjold

 When death is imminent, we open our hearts quickly and wide....

 —Hazel B. Andre

 Suicide may be regarded as an experiment—a question which man puts to
Nature, trying to force her to an answer. The question is this: What
change will death produce in a man’s existence and in his insight into
the nature of things? It is a clumsy experiment to make; for it involves
the destruction of the very consciousness which puts the question and
awaits the answer....	— Arthur Schopenhauer

 Death is not an evil, for it liberates from all evils, and if it
deprives man of any good thing it also takes away his desire for it....
— Giacomo Leopardi

 To die is only to be as we were before we were born; yet no one feels
any remorse or regret, or repugnance, in contemplating this last idea.
It is rather a relief and disburdening of the mind....	— William
Hazlitt

 To die is landing on some distant shore....	— John Dryden

 One should depart from life as Ulysses parted from Nausicaa—blessing
it rather than in love with it...,

 —Friedrich W. Nietzsche

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890    Death	*	81 

 	 c  Death is considered to be a traumaticexperience, but understand
what hap-pens. That which has been born, theknowledge “I Am,” will
end. Thatknowledge which was limited by thisbody will then become
unlimited, sowhat is to be feared?...

 —Nisargadatta

 The truest end of life is to know thatlife never ends....Death is no
more thana turning us over from time to eterni-ty....	— William Penn

 Just as one must learn the art of killingin training for violence, so
one mustlearn the art of dying in the training ofnon-violence.... —
Mohandas Gandhi

 0 man, do not be afraid of death at all.Thou art immortal. Death is not
theopposite of life. It is only a phase of life.Life flows on
ceaselessly. The fruit per-ishes but the seed is full of life. Theseed
dies but a huge tree grows out ofthe seed. The tree perishes but
itbecomes coal which has rich life. Waterdisappears but it becomes the
invisiblesteam which contains the seed of newlife. The stone disappears
but itbecomes lime which is full of new life.The physical sheath only is
thrown butlife persists....	— Sivatianda

 All we have thought of as adventure inthis world pales beside the most
excit-ing adventure of all: our return to RealReality....	— Iris
Belhayes

 There is no such thing as death. Innature nothing dies. From each
sadremnant of decay some forms of lifearise....	— Charles Machay

 Death no longer seems the final end itused to be, but rather the
entrance to anew and free existence which includesall space and time....

 —Charles Lindbergh

 Death

 If you ask, does a man live beyond death, I answer No, not in any sense
comprehensible to the mind of man which itself dies at death, and if you
ask, does a man altogether die at death, I answer No, for what dies is
what belongs to this world of form and illusion....	— Gautama Buddha

 The knowledge that we will die burns out our attachments to the
dignified madness of our socially constructed existence. Death is an
ally that helps us to release our clinging to social position, material
accumulation, and superficial desires as a source of ultimate
security....	— Duane Elgin

 Inexorable—that is what death is like. We hide and run away from it;
we use every trick and illusion we know to fend it off. But death will
find us, whatever corner of the world we run to....

 —Piero Ferrucci

 Nothing can happen more beautiful than death....	— Walt Whitman

 Death is no enemy of man; it is a friend who, when the work of life is
done, just cuts the cord that binds the human boat to earth, that it may
sail on smoother seas....	— Matheno

 When you take the wires of a cage apart, you do not hurt the bird, but
you help it. You let it out of prison. How do you know that death does
not help me when it takes the wires of my cage down?—that it does not
release me, and put me into some better place and better condition of
life?...

 —Randolph S. Foster

 Think not disdainfully of death, but look upon it with favor for Nature
wills it like all else....Look for the hour when the soul shall emerge
from its sheath....

 —Marcus Aurelius

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Death	*	82

 	  c  Death is only pushing aside the portiere and passing from one
room to another....I think of death as a glad awakening from this
troubled sleep which we call life; as an emancipation from the world
which, beautiful though it be, is still a land of captivity....	
—Lyman Abbott

 If at the death of your body you are a mere hoarder of things, you will
be tied to those things by bonds and chains (of thought), which, though
invisible, are as real as chains of iron....

 —Prentice Mulford

 We should not fear death, for then we cease to live fully now....

 —Doris Webster Havice

 Among all the passions inflicted from without, death holds first
place....Consequently, when a person conquers death and things directed
to death, this is a most perfect victory....

 —Thomas Aquinas

 Men fear death as children fear to go into the dark; and as that
natural fear in children is increased with tales, so is the other....
— Francis Bacon

 Death? Translated into the heavenly tongue, that word means life....

 —Henry W. Beecher

 How do I know that the love of life is not a delusion after all? How do
I know but that he who dreads death is not as a child who has lost his
way and does not know his way home?...	— ChuangTse

 The end of everything that is born is death....construction must result
in destruction of that which is constructed. It is a law of nature that
birth ends in death and death leads to birth....

 —Sathya Sai Baba

 Death

 Do not grudge your brother his rest. He has at last become free, safe
and immortal....Your brother has not lost the light of day, but has
obtained a more enduring light. He has not left us, but has gone before
us....	— Seneca

 To meet death not only as an event at the end of life but as an
ever-present ingredient in the life process itself is the final goal to
be sought....

 — J. Bruce Long

 Death is not a foe, but an inevitable adventure....	— Oliver Lodge

 After your death you will be what you were before your birth....

 —Arthur Schopenhauer

 As  a well-spent day brings happy sleep, so life well used brings happy
death....

 —Leonardo Da Vinci

 Dissolution of the body is no more than sleep. Just as a man sleeps and
wakes up, so is death and birth. Death is like sleep. Birth is like
waking up. Death brings promotion to a new and better life. A man of
discrimination and wisdom is not afraid of death. He knows that death is
the gate of life. Death to him is no longer a skeleton bearing a sword
to cut the thread of life, but rather an angel who has a golden key to
unlock for him the door to a wider, fuller and happier existence....

 —Sivananda

 We should weep for men at their birth, not at their death....

 —Baron de Montesquieu

 Life is eternal and love is immortal; and death is only a horizon; and
a horizon is nothing save the limit of our sight....	— Rossiter
Raymond

 Death	*	83

 	-q?

 We cannot tell. We do not know. Butwhether death is an end or the
begin-ning, we must not fear. For death isperfect rest and peace. The
dead do notsuffer....	— Robert Ingersoll

 We understand death for the first timewhen he puts his hand upon
onewhom we love....	— Madame de Stael

 There is no death. They only truly livewho pass into the life beyond,
and seethis earth as but a school preparativefor higher ministry....

 —John Oxenham

 Nature invented death that there mightbe new life....	— Johann W.
Goethe

 We cannot rationally feel sorry for thedeparted person....because as
dead he iscompletely insensitive to all suchthings as any piece of earth
or non-liv-ing matter. He is just exactly as nonexis-tent as he was
before birth andconception....	— Corliss Lamont

 Death is only an old door set in a gar-den wall...	— Nancy Byrd
Turner

 There is no need to be fearful of death.

 It is nature’s way to recycle superfluoustrash. The body becomes food
for theworms and the spirit ascends to heav-enly planes....	—
Anonymous

 The spirit of man, which God inspired,cannot together perish with this
corpo-real clod....	— John Milton

 On the day of his death, a man feels hehas lived but a single day....

 —The Zohar

 It is impossible that anything so natur-al as death, so necessary, and
so univer-sal as death should ever have beendesigned as an evil to
mankind....

 —Jonathan Swift

 Death

 The person who loves God is not afraid of death because it’s looking
into the face of God....	— Ignatius Loyola

 Although I want to live and labor as long as God lets me, I consider
the moment of my death as the most precious of my life....

 —Friedrich von Schiller

 Death, so called, is a thing which makes men weep, and yet a third of
life is passed in sleep.... — George Byron

 I find it is natural to believe that death is not a disastrous sundown
but rather a spiritual sunrise, ushering in the unconjectured splendors
of immortality....	— Archibald Rutledge

 Death holds terrors for us. This is because we think we are merely
physical bodies subject to birth, growth, decay and death. To shed this
fear we must realize that we are immortal and that even if the body
perishes we are not going to perish. Only when fear leaves our hearts we
shall remain in peace....	— Papa Ramdas

 Death is the greatest of all human blessings....	— Plato

 The tomb is not a blind alley; it is a thoroughfare. It closes on the
twilight, it opens on the dawn....

 —Victor Hugo

 Everything science has taught me—and continues to teach
me—strengthens my belief in the continuity of our spiritual existence
after death....

 —Werner von Braun

 It is only in the face of death that man’s self is born....	—
Augustine

 Think not disdainfully of death, but look on it with favor; for even
death is one of the things that Nature wills....

 —Ptolemy

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065    Death 

 At the death of every living being the spirit returns to the world of
spirits and the body to the world of bodies. But only the bodies change
in the process. The world of spirit is a single spirit standing like a
light in back of the world of bodies and shining through each individual
that comes into existence as through a window....

 —Aziz Nasifi

 Death....Why worry one’s head over a thing that is inevitable? Why
die before one’s death?...	— Mohandas Gandhi

 Readiness for death is that of character rather than occupation. It is
right living which prepares for safe or even joyous dying....	—
Jacques Bossuet

 Living is death; dying is life. On this side of the grave we are
exiles, on that, citizens; on this side orphans, on that, children; on
this side, captives, on that, freeman; on this side disguised, unknown,
on that, disclosed and proclaimed as the sons of God....

 —Henry W. Beecher

 The living all find death unpleasant, men mourn over it. And yet, what
is death, but the unbending of the bow and its return to its case; what
is it but the emptying of the corporal envelope?...	— Chuang Tse

 People fear death because what happens at death is unknown.
However....I look forward to the change called death as life’s last
great adventure....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 The Aramaic word for death translates: “not here present
elsewhere.” This ancient concept of death best describes the
near-death experience and what happens to those who go through it. These
people were present—elsewhere....	—P.  M. H. Atwater

 84 *	Death

 Death does not exist. There must be another life. The contrary would
even be more impossible....

 —Robert Muller

 What better can the Lord do for man than take him home when he has done
his work?...	— Charles Kingsley

 The fear of death keeps us from living, not from dying....	— Paul
Roud

 The dead take to the grave, clutched in their hands, only what they
have given away....	— DeWitt Wallace

 One of the most common errors is the notion that pain and dying are
inseparable companions. The truth is that they rarely go together.
Occasionally, the act of dissolution is a painful one, but this should
be the exception to the general rule....	— Edward Clarke

 Somebody should tell us, right from the start of our lives, that we are
dying. Then we might live life to the limit, every minute of the
day....There are only so many tomorrows....

 —Michael Landon

 Death is a punishment to some, to some a gift, and to many a favor....

 —Seneca

 If you love others, let them know it while they live. Tributes after
death never equal one encouraging smile or one friendly handclasp while
the loved one is living....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 Of all the things that move man, one of the principle ones is the
terror of death....The idea of death, the fear of it, haunts the human
animal like nothing else....	— Ernest Becker

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Death	*	,

 The loss of friends by the transition we call death will not cause
sorrow to the soul that has come into this higher realization....that
there is no such thing as death, for each one is not only a partaker,
but an eternal partaker, of this Infinite Life. He knows that the mere
falling away of the physical body by no means affects real soul life....

 —Ralph W. Trine

 What is death? A mask. Turn it and be convinced. See, it does not
bite....

 —Epictetus

 A man’s dying is more the survivor’s affair than his own....

 —Thomas Mann

 What is death at most? It is a journey for a season: a sleep longer
than usual. If thou feared death, thou shouldest also fear sleep....	—
John Chrysostom

 Death is but a casting-off of old clothes....	— Sathya Sai Baba

 Death is a great adventure, but none need go unconvinced that there is
an issue to it. The man of faith may face it as Columbus faced his first
voyage from the shores of Spain....that the sea has another shore....

 —Harry E. Fosdick

 Bodies are like pillowcases. It doesn’t matter whether they remain or
drop off....	— Ramakrishna

 To be afraid of death is like being afraid of discarding an old
worn-out garment....	-— Mohandas Gandhi

 Death is not a period but a comma in the story of life.... — Amos J.
Traver

 Death is no more traumatic than taking off an old coat....

 —Eknath Easwaran

 > ♦?	 Death

 Never is the undying Self born nor does it die; never did it come to be
nor will it come not to be: Unborn, eternal, everlasting is the
primordial Self. It is not slain when the body is slain....

 — Bhagavad-Gita

 Whatever state of being one calls to mind at the end upon leaving aside
his body, to that very state he attains, always being in that state....

 —Tibetan Book of the Dead

 Death is but a new birth into a new state. Death is not to be feared,
any more than birth. When the body ceases to be, the spirit emerges,
free and unencumbered. I shall be richer all my life for this sorrow....
— Shirley H. Jeffrey

 The premeditation of death is the premeditation of liberty. As a person
has learned how to die he has learned how not to be a slave....

 —Michel Montaigne

 Death strikes without notice: the young and the old, the well and the
sickly, the high and the low, the rich and the poor. It is no respecter
of persons. There is no lasting peace as long as the person is still in
the body. Therefore, one should not place any trust in a life which is
sustained by so uncertain a thing as breathing in and out....

 — J. Bruce Long

 People are afraid to die, because they do not know what is death....the
moment you know your real being, you are afraid of nothing. Death gives
freedom and power.... -— Nisargadatta

 Death is transition. Our body dies and it breaks correspondence with
our physical environment. But our life is in the spirit, and this life
is eternal. Life never dies. Bodies cease, but life is eternal....	—
Alfred A. Montapert

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065    Death 

 Death: where the changing mist of doubts will vanish at a breath, and
the mountain peaks of truth will appear....

 —Rabindranath Tagore

 Death is the final stage of growth in this life. There is no total
death. Only the body dies. The self or the spirit, or whatever you may
wish to label it, is eternal. You may interpret this in any way that
makes you comfortable....

 —Elisabeth Kubler-Ross

 The moment comes when the great nurse, death, takes man, the child, by
the hand and quietly says, “It is time to go home. Night is coming. It
is your bedtime, child of earth. Come; you’re tired. Lie down at last
in the quiet nursery of nature and sleep. Sleep well. The day is gone.
Stars shine in the canopy of eternity.”...	— Joshua Liebman

 Is there any doctrine of immortality that can say anything more simple
yet definite about man’s fate after death? He has come from and
returns to God....	— Hermann Cohen

 Know that the body is like a garment. Go seek the wearer of the
garment....You are such that without the material body you have a
spiritual body; do not, then, dread the going forth of the soul from the
body....Your fear of death is really fear of yourself; see what it is
from which you are fleeing!...	— Rumi

 Men fear death only because death is the ending of sense pleasures....

 —Anonymous

 Let death be daily before your eyes, and you will never entertain any
abject thought, nor too eagerly covet anything....	— Epictetus

 86 *	Death

 The foolish fear death as the greatest of evils, the wise deserve it as
a rest after labors and the end of ills....Death is not only not an evil
but a good thing....

 — St. Ambrose

 Death for those who understand it is immortality, but for those
unenlightened ones, who do not understand it, it is death....	— St.
Antony the Great

 The meaning we find in life cannot be separated from the meaning we
give death. Seen from the outside, death is an end—from the inside, a
beginning. Properly died, death is a total release: letting ourselves
go, letting ourselves sink, letting ourselves fade into nothingness and
fuse with the fullness of eternity....	— Karlfried G. Durckheim

 It is not hard to die. It is harder, a thousand times harder, to
live....

 —Henry W. Beecher

 Nothing is dead. People feign themselves dead, and endure mock funerals
and mournful obituaries. And there they stand, looking out the window,
sound and well in some strange new disguise....	— Ralph W. Emerson

 Life is going forth, death is returning home....	— Lao-tzu

 At the time of death, the mind forgets the existing body and enters
into another body. Whether you will it or not, what is designed to
happen will certainly happen as ordained by God. Hence, it is advisable
to leave all sorrows to God and live in peace....

 —Lahshmana

 The fear of death is more to be dreaded then death itself....

 —Publilius Synis

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Death	*	87	*	Death

 	 it? 	

 Not by lamentations and mournful chants ought we to celebrate the
funeral of a good man, but by hymns, for in ceasing to be numbered to
mortals, he enters upon the heritage of a diviner life....	— Plutarch

 Death is a tax the soul must pay for having a name and form....

 —Hazrat Inayat Khan

 Alas for those who never sing but die with all their music in them....

 —Oliver W. Holmes

 I like to compare the change called death to that of going to sleep at
night and losing consciousness, but awakening again in the morning to
full consciousness without any suffering or without any violation of
nature’s laws....	— H. Spenser Lewis

 The goal of all life is death....

 —Sigmund Freud

 Death opens unknown doors. It is most grand to die....	— John
Masefield

 Death used to announce itself in the thick of life but now people drag
on so long, it sometimes seems that we are reaching the stage when we
have to announce ourselves to death....

 —Ronald Blythe

 Nobody is born or dies at any time; it is the mind that conceives its
birth and death and its migration to other bodies and other worlds....
— Yoga Vasistha

 A  dying man needs to die as a sleeping man needs to sleep, and there
comes a time when it is wrong, as well as useless, to resist....	—
Stewart Alsop

 Don’t be afraid your life will end; be afraid it will never begin....

 —Grace Hanson

 Death....is no more than passing from one room into another. But
there’s a difference for me, you know. Because in that other room I
shall be able to see....	— Helen Keller

 Death is a debt we all must pay....

 —Euripides

 Death is for many the gate of hell; but we are inside on the way out,
not on the outside on the way in....

 —George B. Shaw

 Death is one of life’s many illusions, drawing our attention to the
perishing and makes us lose sight of the permanent and imperishable....

 —Erik Plamstiema

 There is no evil in life to the man who is thoroughly convinced that to
be deprived of life is not evil; to be ready to die frees us from
bondage and thrall- dom....	— Michel Montaigne

 When death comes, he respects neither age nor merit. He sweeps from
this earthly existence the sick and the strong, the rich and the poor,
and should teach us to live to be prepared for death....	— Andrew
Jackson

 Why do we dread death so much? Death is our redeemer....We should
thankfully enjoy its blessed wine....

 —Solomon Ibn Gabirol

 A  solemn funeral is inconceivable to the Chinese mind.... — Lin
Yutang

 Death, when it approaches, ought not to take one by surprise. It should
be part of the full expectancy of life....

 —Muriel Spark

 Weep not for him who departs from life, for there is no suffering
beyond death....	— Palladas

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065    Death	*	88	*	Death 

   •*? They that love beyond the world, cannot be separated. Death
cannot kill what never dies. Nor can Spirits ever be divided that love
and live in the same Divine Principle.... — William Penn

 We weep when we are born, not when we die!...	— Thomas B. Aldrich

 Death is only the servant who opens the door when Providence rings the
bell, and ushers you into a larger building....	— George H. Hepworth

 The gods conceal from men the happiness of death, that they may endure
life....	— Lucan

 The end of birth is death; the end of death is birth; this is
ordained....

 —Edwin Arnold

 We only die once and the great mystery is in knowing what it is going
to be like. How can we possibly prepare for it? The answer is that death
exists within life. Life is just a series of changes. All the little
deaths that occur within life are teaching us to let go....

 —Sogyal Rinpoche

 Life and death are one thread, the same line viewed from different
sides....

 — Lao-tzu

 Death consists chiefly in getting rid of a worn-out husk which is left
behind, much in the same way as the chrysalis sheath of a moth or as the
husks of a growing bud or bulbs are peeled off....

 —Paul Twitched

 If life must not be taken too seriously— then so neither must
death....

 —Samuel Butler

 If some people died, and others did not die, death would indeed be a
terrible affliction....	— Jean La Bruyere

 Death is common in the world. Everyone in it must one day or other doff
the physical part of living. Hence, it is not at all proper to be afraid
of it....While the body perishes, the Spirit is immortal. We are here to
realize we are the spirit. Body is only a vesture, a mask, or a vehicle,
impermanent and transitory....	— Papa Ramdas

 While I thought that I was learning how to live, I have been learning
how to die....	— Leonardo Da Vinci

 Death is an illusion....What people call death is the intensification
and reinvig- oration of life....	— Abraham I. Kook

 There awaits men at death what they do not expect or think....

 —Heraclitus

 Death has nothing terrible which life has not made so....this world is
the land of dying; the next is the land of living....

 —Tryon Edwards

 Death is a beautiful liberation into freer life. The limiting clay
garment, the body, is put aside. The self-centered nature goes with you
to learn and grow on the disembodied side of life, and then returns here
into a suitable clay garment and suitable circumstances to learn the
lessons we need to learn....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 When you stop learning, stop listening, stop looking and asking
questions, then it is time to die....	— Lillian Smith

 I will be dead in a few months. But it hasn’t given me the slightest
anxiety or worry. I always knew I was going to die....	— B. F. Skinner

 Death is experienced only once; but he who fears it dies each
minute....

 —Solomon Rubin

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Death	*	89 	♦?	 Death

 I regard death as a friend, a valet who helps one off with ones’s
physical plane overcoat when it is worn out or in any other way no
longer usable....

 —George S. Arundale

 No man who is fit to live need fear to die. To us here, death is the
most terrible thing we know. But when we have tasted its reality it will
mean to us birth, deliverance, a new creation of ourselves. It will be
what health is to the sick man; what home is to the exile; what the
loved one given back is to the bereaved....	— Thomas Fuller

 Once you accept your own death, all of a sudden you are free to live.
You no longer care about your reputation....you no longer care except so
far as your life can be used tactically to promote a cause you believe
in....	— Saul Alinsky

 Death is just a distant rumor to the young....	— Andy Rooney

 There are some odd things about human dying....that don’t fit at all
with the notion of agony at the end. People who almost die but don’t,
and then recover to describe the experience, never mention anguish or
pain, or even despair; to the contrary, they recall a strange feeling of
tranquility and peace....	— Lewis Thomas

 There is no suffering for him who has finished his journey, and
abandoned grief, who has faced himself on all sides, and thrown off all
fetters....

 —Dhammapada

 Are you afraid you don’t know how to die? Don’t worry. Nature will
take care of that for you....	— Marco Vassi

 At death, if at any time, we see ourselves as we are, and display our
true characters....	— Robert Benson

 After death, the soul goes to the next world bearing in mind the subtle
impressions of its deeds, and after reaping their harvest returns again
to this world of action....	— The Upanishads

 To pass from midnight to noon on the sudden, to be decrepit one minute
and all spirit and activity the next, must be a desirable change. To
call this dying is an abuse of language....

 —Jeremy Taylor

 We are but tenants and....shortly, the great Landlord will give us
notice that our lease has expired....

 —Joseph Jefferson

 The act of dying is one of the acts of life....	— Marcus Aurelius

 Death....is a transition from one state of being to another. The lowly
silkworm, after weaving his silken shroud, is transformed into a radiant
butterfly....

 —Charles F. Alsop

 To die will be an awfully big adventure....	— James M. Barrie

 Every man faces two deaths and not just one. There is the biological
event marked by mortuaries and monuments. But there is also the personal
event, the spiritual death, which often goes unnoticed....	— Carl
Micholson

 Death is merely a change of clothing....We are what we are....

 —Andre Luiz

 To fear death....is nothing other than to think oneself wise when one
is not; for it is to think one knows what one does not know. No man
knows whether death may not even turn out to be the greatest of
blessings for a human being; and yet people fear it as if they knew for
certain that it is the greatest of evils....	— Socrates

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Death	*	90 	♦?	 Death

   	

 Death is a golden key that opens the palace of eternity....	— John
Milton

 When man departs this life, he divests himself of all the veils which
cover him....	— The Zohar

 As soon as a man comes to life, he is immediately old enough to die....

 —Der Ackennon aus Bohmen

 Nothing can be accomplished after death in the way of spiritual
liberation unless it is at least begun during this life....	— Santon
ki Shiksha

 Death is the certain end of all pain, and all capacity to suffer pain.
Of all the things that man thinks of as evils, this is the last....	—
Johann G. Fichte

 O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory?...

 —Paul of Tarsus

 Death is to put off a garment. For the body is about the soul as a
garment; and after laying this aside for a short time by means of death,
we shall resume it again with the more splendor....	— John Chrysostom

 Death is like an arrow that is already in flight, and your life lasts
only until it reaches you....	— Hermes

 Whoever is interested in life is particularly interested in death....

 —Thomas Mann

 Let me tell you as one who has witnessed many deaths, that in my
experience I have never seen one that was unhappy....	 —Leslie D.
Weatherhead

 Science has found that nothing can disappear without a trace. Nature
does not know extinction. All it knows is transformation....	— Werner
von Braun

 My present experience is that Eternal Life does not begin after death,
but that we start living it now; only it is masked by our daily cares,
and it is only on contact with death, perhaps, that we discover it. God
is not a God of the dead, but of the living, since for him they are all
living....	— Theo Bovet

 A  man abandons worn-out clothes and acquires new ones, so when the
body is worn out a new one is acquired by the self, who lives within....

 — Bhagavad-Gita

 To die is a debt we must all of us discharge....The dead have no tears,
and forget all sorrow....	— Euripides

 The secret of the world is that all things subsist and do not die, but
only retire a little from sight and afterwards return again....	—
Ralph W. Emerson

 Death is but a sharp corner near the beginning of life’s procession
down eternity....	— Ayscough

 Birth and death are like ships: why do we rejoice over a ship setting
out on a journey when we know not what she may encounter on the seas? We
should rejoice when the ship returns safely to the port....	— Midrash
Tanhuma

 This life is only a prelude to eternity. For that which we call death
is but a pause, in truth, a progress into life....

 —Seneca

 On the day when death will knock at thy door, what will you offer him?
I will set before my guest the full vessel of my life. I will never let
him go with empty hands....

 —Rabindranath Tagore

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Death	*	91	*	Death	(Last	Words)

 The body is nothing but a covering over our soul, and when it is gone
we are not dead; just as we do not think that we are dead when our coat
is worn out, or if someone tears our shirt. The moment when a person
dies is the only moment when he feels he is dead. The impression of this
dying condition, the hopelessness of the doctor, the sorrow and grief of
the family cause this impression. After death, as he recovers from this,
he gradually finds himself alive....for the great burden has been
removed....	— Hazrat Inayat Khan

  Death  (Last Words) 

 T

 he hour I have long wished for isnow come.... — Teresa of Avila

 Dear me! I must be turning into a god....	— Vespasian

 Why do you weep? Did you think I should live forever?. ..(last days)

 —Louis XIV

 I want to meet my God awake....

 (refused drugs on deathbed) —Maria Theresa

 I have been dying for twenty years, now I am going to live....

 —James D. Burns

 I am a broken machine. I am ready to go....	— Woodrow Wilson

 Let us be kinder to one another....

 -—Aldous Huxley

 There is no reality to my sickness. There is no reality to my death....

 —Milarepa

 Let us cross the river and rest in the shade....	— Stonewall Jackson

 It’s been very interesting....

 —Mary Wortly Montagu

 If this is death, it is easier than life....

 —Robert L. Stevenson

 I go from a corruptible to an incorruptible crown, where no disturbance
can take place... .(last words on scaffold)

 —Charles I England

 Why fear death? It is the most beautiful adventure in life.. ..(last
words before going down on the Lusitania)

 —Charles Frohman

 Dying is a wild night and a new road....  (night of death) 	 —Emily
Dickinson

 This is the last of earth! I am content....

 —John Quincy Adams

 Now comes the mystery....

 —Henry W. Beecher

 I shall hear in heaven....

 —Beethoven (who was deaf)

 I leave this world without a regret....

 —Henry D. Thoreau

 Do let me die in peace....

 —Voltaire

 Light, light, the world needs more light....	— Johann W. Goethe

 I am going to that country which I have all my life wished to see....

 —William Blake

 This is not the end of me....

 —Henry C. Bonnerman

 If I had the strength to hold a pen, I would write down how easy and
pleasant it is to die....	— William Hunter

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Death (Last Words)

 92

 ■?  -

 Depress ion/Despa ir

 Turn up the lights; I don’t want to go home in the dark....	— O.
Henry

 God will forgive me; that’s his business....	— Heinrich Heine

 It is very beautiful over there....

 —Thomas Edison

 Midnight strikes, wards the grave....

 One more step to- (last words in diary)—Henri F. Amiel

  Depression/Despair 

 Y

 ou can be healed (of depression)if every day you begin the first

 thing in the morning to consider howyou will bring a real joy to
someoneelse....	— Alfred Adler

 The biggest disease today is not leprosy or tuberculosis, but rather
the feeling of being unwanted....

 —Mother Teresa

 The attitude of unhappiness is not only painful, it is mean and
ugly....

 —William James

 Unhappiness is best defined as the difference between our talents and
our expectations....	— Edward de Bono

 Man’s unhappiness....comes of his greatness; it is because there is
an Infinite in him, which, with all his cunning, he cannot quite bury
under the finite....	— Thomas Carlyle

 It is ironic that man should feel such a painful void inside of himself
when he lives in a world of so many things....but which apparently
cannot fill the heart....	— John Powell

 Whenever you feel dissatisfied with life and the way things are
going....if we just wait a little while, we will eventually see that the
way God is doing things is the right way, the best way, and (in the
final analysis) the only way....	— Elinor MacDonald

 When the thickness of anger is repressed, it thins, spreading out into
a cloud of despair....	— Anonymous

 Men who are unhappy, like men who sleep badly, are always proud of the
fact....	— Bertrand Russell

 Don’t let life discourage you: everyone who got where he is had to
begin where he was....	— Richard Evans

 Almost anything carried to a logical extreme becomes depressing....

 —Ursula K. LeGuin

 Depression is a disorder of mood, so mysteriously painful and
elusive....as to verge close to being beyond description....	— William
Styron

 Despair is the price one pays for setting oneself an impossible aim....

 —Graham Greene

 We seldom think of what we have but always of what we lack....

 —Arthur Schopenhauer

 No one can ever gain strength by brooding over his weakness....

 —Paramananda

 Depression is rage spread thin....

 —Paul Tillich

 Noble deeds and hot baths are the best cures for depression....

 —Dodie Smith

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Depression/Despair	*	:

 Helplessness leads to panic, and panic leads to depression....

 —Martin E. P. Seligman

 The essence to remove from yourself is every hint of the bitter
blackness of depression. The fundamental reason why people are far from
God is because of depression....	— Rabbi Nachman

 Despondency is ingratitude; hope is God’s worship.... — Henry W.
Beecher

 When we close our cheerful hearts, we shut the sunshine in. When we
draw down the shades, we darken our spirits. The dejected, depressed,
damp-spirited men—the melancholy, dumpy people have had, and always
will have, a hard time of it....	— Fred Van Amburgh

 In separation from God is man’s greatest misery....	— Mohandas
Gandhi

 Depression occurs when you are not being yourself. You’re probably
doing things you don’t want to do....

 —Eda LeShan

 Misery is not absence of happiness, but limited happiness. For as
happiness recedes misery pours in....

 —Tripura Rahasya

 It is certainly wrong to despair; and if despair is wrong, hope is
right....

 —John Lubbock

 Gloom is an epidemic disease. All those who come in contact with gloomy
people are immediately affected. A gloomy man should cover his face when
he comes out....

 —Sivananda

 Depression is the inability to construct a future....	— Rollo May

 1 *	Depression/Despair

 When I am depressed, somewhere deep inside, I know that I am denying
the Presence of God....

 —Gerald Jampolsky

 A  self-pitying life is a doomed life. Only the life which deliberately
picks up and starts over again is victorious....

 —James G. Gilkey

 Melancholy is born of self-importance....	— Nancy D. Potts

 There is nothing more insidious than that solacing self-pity which
would rather bear a woe than induce the anguish which its removal
requires. Worse still, if an individual identifies himself as an
underling, continually stating, “I can’t win,” he diminishes his
power to achieve, crippling himself against all future endeavor....

 —David Seabury

 Sadness usually results from one of the following causes—either when
a man does not succeed, or is ashamed of his success....	— Seneca

 Self-pity gets you nowhere. One must have the adventurous daring to
accept oneself as a bundle of possibilities and undertake the most
interesting game in the world—making the most of one’s best....	—
Harry E. Fosdick

 We are unhappy only when we want things other than they are....

 —Lucy Comellssen

 Pity was invented by the weak....

 —Mendele M. Seforim

 Gloom and sadness are poison to us....

 —Madame Sevigne

 Despair is the damp of hell, as joy is the serenity of heaven....	—
John Donne

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Depression/Despair	*	94	*
Depression/Despair

 	  vp? 		

 Depression cannot exist in the presence of God....	— Shantidasa

 God allows us to experience the low points of life in order to teach us
lessons we could not learn in any other way. The way to learn these
lessons is not to deny the feelings but to find the meanings underlying
them....

 —Stanley Lindquest

 By sadness you destroy the divine image in your soul. God is joy....

 —Lombez

 To be melancholy is to be forever thinking of oneself....	— Comtesse
Diane

 When the clouds of depression start gathering, we must do something
constructive to dispel them. The mind that can contemplate goodness will
be prepared for such emergencies and provide some safety valve for the
occasion....	— Lowell R. Ditzen

 Never despair, but if you do, work on in despair....	— Edmund Burke

 Despair is the offspring of fear, of laziness, and of impatience; it
argues a defect of spirit and resolution, and often of honesty too....

 —Jeremy Collier

 Despondency is not a state of humility. On the contrary, it is a
vexation and despair of a cowardly pride; nothing is worse....	
—Francois	Fenelon

 Man is only miserable as far as he thinks himself so....

 —Jacopo Sannazaro

 One must never despair if something is lost to one, a person or a joy
or a happiness; everything comes back again more gloriously....	
—Rainer M. Rilke

 Despair is the rejection of God within oneself....

 —Antoine de Saint-Exupery

 We have no more right to put our discordant states of mind into the
lives of those around us and rob them of their sunshine and brightness
than we have to enter their houses and steal their silverware....	—
Julia Mosileton

 What poison is to food, self-pity is to life....	— Oliver C. Wilson

 The mass of men lead lives of quiet desperation. What is called
resignation is confirmed desperation....

 —Henry D. Thoreau

 Sometimes sadness and sorrow wash the eyes with the tears of a more
perfect understanding....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 He that despairs measures Providence by his own little contracted model
and limits infinite power to finite apprehension....	— Robert Smith

 A  lot of what passes for depression these days is nothing more than a
body saying that it needs work....

 —Geoffrey Norman

 He who despairs wants love and faith, for faith, hope and love are
three torches which blend their light together, nor does one shine
without the other....

 —Pietro Metastais

 Misery acquaints man with strange bedfellows....

 —William Shakespeare

 Sorrows are like thunderclouds. Far off they look black, but directly
over us merely gray....	— Jean Paul Richter

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Depression/Despair	*	95	*
Depression/Despair

 Sorrow is a form of self-pity....

 —Robert F. Kennedy

 When a person drowns himself in negative thinking he is committing an
unspeakable crime against himself....

 —Maxwell Maltz

 The great enemy of the soul is not trial but sadness, which is the
bleeding wound of self-love....

 —William B. Villathome

 In depression we look for evidence of anger behind the saddened
aspect...

 —Albert Rothenberg

 It is impious in a good man to be sad....

 —Owen D. Young

 Keep aloof from sadness for sadness is a sickness of the soul. Life
has, indeed, many ills, but the mind that views every object in its most
cheering aspect, and every doubtful dispensation as replete with latent
good, bears within itself a powerful and perpetual antidote....	—
Lydia Sigourney

 The best thing for being sad is to learn something....	—	 T. H. White

 As high as we have mounted in delight, in our dejection do we sink as
low....

 —William Wordsworth

 We wear the chains we forge in life....

 —Charles Dickens

 What we call despair is often only the painful eagerness of unfed
hope....

 —George Eliot

 People ruled by the mood of gloom attract to them gloomy things. People
always discouraged and despondent do not succeed at anything, and live
only by burdening someone else....

 —Ralph W. Trine

 It is impossible for that man to despair who remembers his Helper is
omnipotent....	— Jeremy Taylor

 Look at the discontented, gloomy, melancholy and ill-tempered men or
women, and you see in their faces proof of this silent force of their
unpleasant thought, cutting, carving, and shaping them to present
expression....	— Prentice Mulford

 Every day can be a blue day to you, every night just another night of
misery; you produce in your daily life these very things by constantly
impressing wrong ideas upon your mind....	— Norman V. Peale

 Through depression we not only drag ourselves down but we drag others
down with us....One who is melancholy has no right to touch another
person's life....	— Paramananda

 A  morose, gloomy man cannot attract and influence people. He is an
infectious parasite amidst society. He spreads gloom everywhere....

 —Sivananda

 The cause of your misery is not in your outer life; it is in you, as
your ego. You impose limitations on yourself and then make a vain
struggle to transcend them....	-— Ramana Maharshi

 If a melancholic person broods over his misery, he is sure to become
even more miserable, instead of recognizing his misery as unfounded....
Melancholy, as every other wrong attitude, is due to a false mental
starting point....

 — Hans-Ulrich Rieker

 Some people are sad because certain things are not present and sadder
because other things are present....

 —Narayana

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Depression/Despair

 Melancholy sees the worst of things—as they may be, and not as they
are. It looks upon a beautiful face, and sees a grinning skull....	—
Christian Bovee

 Melancholy is a symptom of on-coming sickness....	— Nahman Bratzlav

 Although others may feel sorry for you, never feel sorry for
yourself—it has a deadly effect on spiritual well-being. “Before the
eyes can see they must have lost the power to shed tears.”...

 —Peace Pilgrim

 When any fit of....gloominess or perversion of the mind lays hold upon
you, make it a rule not to publish it by complaints but exert your whole
care to hide it. By endeavoring to hide it, you will drive it away....
— Samuel Johnson

 Do not appraise your disappoint-ments too quickly. Disappointment is
often good luck in disquise—often Providence piloting your boat
through the channel of circum-stance....

 —Fred Van Amburgh  Sadness is so ungrateful....

 —Han Suyin

 You have no responsibility to join gloomy people or even be around
them. Surround yourself with happy faces—people who are interested in
growing and enjoying.... — Wayne Dyer

 There are men who are like malarious swamps, poisonous, depressing and
weakening by their presence. They make heavy, oppressive and gloomy the
atmosphere of their own homes.... And there are other men who seem like
the ocean; they are constantly bracing, stimulating, giving new drafts
of tonic life and strength by their very presence....	— William G.
Jordan

 96 *	Desire

 Make not a close friend of a melan-choly, sad person. He will be sure
toincrease your adversity and decreaseyour good fortune. He goes
alwaysheavily loaded, and you must bearhalf....	— Francois Fenelon

 Despair is the absolute extreme of self-love....	— Thomas Merton

 &

  Desire 

 ant is a growing giant whomthe coat of have was never

 large enough to cover....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 When all the desires that surge in the

 heart are renounced, the mortal

 becomes immortal. When all the knotsthat strangle the heart are
loosened, the

 mortal becomes immortal....

 —The Upanishads

 Without desire, there is nothing to

 possess. Without attachment, there isnothing to bind....With each
desire andattachment, we forge a chain, link by

 link, to anchor us to the world of form,thought and concept....

 —A Spiritual Warrior

 It’s very important to get your desirescentered so you will desire
only to doGod’s will for you. You can come to a

 point of oneness of desire, just to know

 and do your part in the Life Pattern.

 When you think about it, is there

 anything else as really important to

 desire?...	— Peace Pilgrim

 The more one yields to desire, the more

 insatiable it will become....

 —Mahabharata

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Desire

 Desire never ceases its demands. It doesn’t let a man rest, day or
night....It never relents, nor does it slacken its chains or cease to
apply the lash, even though the poor victim lies weak and spent upon his
death bed. Even then a desire to live....still holds on....

 —Julian P. Johnson

 Desire tells us, each time, “Now get thou this, and then you shall be
happy.”...The fact is, desire is a bottomless pit which can never fill
up, or like the all-consuming fire which burns the fiercer, the more we
feed it....

 —Lahshmana Sarma

 Man is insatiable for power; he is infantile in his desires and, always
discontented with what he has, loves only what he has not....

 —Joseph de Maistre

 All desires can cause you trouble, even spiritual ones....	—
Annamalai Sivami

 We cannot be free of nagging desires through suppression. This is like
trying to keep a rubber boat beneath the water. But we remove compulsive
desires altogether by understanding their nature....	— Vernon Howard

 Pleasure is beguiling; it has a dangerous tendency to take over....

 —Fernando Savater

 There is no calamity greater than lavish desires....	— Lao-tzu

 Every attachment is a sign of our insufi- ciency....A truly happy being
is a solitary being....	— Jean J. Rousseau

 If men could regard the events of their lives with more open minds,
they would frequently discover that they did not really desire the
things they failed to obtain....	— Andre Maurois

 97

 ■?Off  -

 Desire

 The lust for comfort, that stealthy thingthat enters the house a guest,
thenbecomes a host, and then a master....

 —Kahlil Gibran

 Do not become attached to the thingsyou like; do not maintain an
aversionto the things you dislike. Sorrow, fearand bondage come from
likes and dis-likes....	— Gautama Buddha

 The deepest human urge is the desireto be important....	— John Dewey

 The letter of the law deals with the actsof man; the spirit of the law
takes noteof his desires....  —The Aquarian Gospel

 To identify with any desire keeps youseparate from God....	—
Vivekananda

 Man’s many desires are like the smallmetal coins he carries about in
hispocket. The more he has, the more theyweigh him down.... — Sathya
Sai Baba

 People who constantly find new dis-guises for their desires can easily
lie tothemselves....	— Hans-Ulrich Rieher

 Where desire is, there is no bliss; wherebliss is, there is no
desire....

 —Sivananda

 The more you find yourself yielding todesires, the more dominant
desirebecomes in your life....	— Anonymous

 We cannot see everything as divinebecause we have got a mind which
isobsessed with desires. Desires debar usfrom the vision of the Divine
in eachand everyhing....	— Papa Ramdas

 Gratification of one desire or one set ofdesires merely gives rise to
another....

 —Ramesh Balsekar

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Desire	*	98	*	Desire

 Desire is the creator; desire is the destroyer....	— Hari Das Baba

 Desire blinds us, like the pickpocket who sees only the saint’s
pockets....

 —Jack Komfield

 Wherever there is desire, association with it brings endless misery....

 —Gampopa

 Be very careful what you set your heart upon, for you will surely have
it....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 The great and difficult victory, the conquering of the desires of the
individual soul, is a work of ages....but when you have found the
beginning of the way, the star of your soul will show its light....	—
Mabel Collins

 What makes a man unhappy? When he has a desire and it is not satisfied.
It does not matter what the desire is....

 —Yogi Bhajan

 Because creation is finished, what you desire already exists....Be
still and know that you are that which you desire to be, and you will
never have to search for it....	— Darwin Gross

 Nothing troubles you for which you do not desire....	— Cicero

 We are what we desire to be. We can be what we wish to be. If we make a
plan of our lives and desire that plan to be fulfilled, we will become
that. Desire to be great and you will be. Desire to kill and you can
also kill. Mind will work to fulfill desire, no matter what the desire
is....	— Walter Russell

 The passionate are like men standing on their heads; they see all
things the wrong way....	— Plato

 If thou wilt make a man happy, add not unto his riches but take away
from his desires....	— Epicurus

 The fewer desires, the more peace....

 —Thomas Wilson

 Lust is the captivity of the reason and the enraging of passions....

 —Jeremy Taylor

 The discipline of desire is the background of character....

 —John Locke

 Impossible desires are punished in the desire....	— Philip Sidney

 Destiny has two ways of crushing us— by refusing our wishes and by
fulfilling them....	— Henri F. Amiel

 When I say a man has no desire I mean- that he does not disturb his
inner wellbeing with likes and dislikes. He accepts things as they are
and does not try to improve upon them....

 —Chuang Tse

 Love becomes lust the moment you make it a means for the satisfaction
of animal needs....	— Mohandas Gandhi

 What a mistake to suppose that the passions are the strongest in youth.
The passions are not stronger, but the control over them is weaker....

 —Edward Bulwer-Lytton

 My belief is that to have no wants is divine....	— Socrates

 The satisfaction which results from gratified desire is brief and
illusionary, and is always followed by an increased demand for
gratification. Desire is insatiable as the ocean, and clamors louder and
louder as its demands are attended to....	— James Allen

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Desire 	♦?	.

 Desires are innumerable, insatiable and unconquerable. Enjoyment cannot
bring satisfaction. It is a mistake to think so. Enjoyment only fans a
desire....Enjoyment strengthens, increases and aggravates a desire....

 —Sivananda

 The marvelous things about human beings is that we are perpetually
reaching for the stars. The more we have, the more we want. And for this
reason, we never have it all....	— Joyce Brothers

 Our passions are like convulsive fits, which though they make us
stronger for a time, leave us weaker ever after....

 —Jonathan Swift

 Other desires perish in their gratification, but the desire of
knowledge never....	— Alfred E. Housman

 When all desire is surrendered but the desire to function as God wills,
the way is opened before you....

 —Amy & Evarts Loomis

 Don’t think about desires and how to get rid of them. Just be still
and quiet and all your doubts and desires will vanish....	— Lakshmana

 In moderating, not in satisfying desires, lies peace....	— Reginald
Heber

 In the light of eternity we should see that what we desired would have
been fatal to us, and that what we would have avoided was essential to
our wellbeing....	— Francois Fenelon

 Our desires always disappoint us; for though we meet with something
that gives us satisfaction, yet it never thoroughly answers our
expectations....

 —Francois La Rochefoucauld

  I  ♦?	 Desire 

 ?  	

 There are two tragedies in life. One is not to get your heart’s
desire. And the other is to get it....	— George B. Shaw

 Desires go on increasing and burning more fiercely as they are
fed....The more you yield to desire, the more dominant it becomes in
your life. It does not matter the desire—the more you try to satisfy
desire, the more you become captivated and enslaved by it....

 —Ramana Maharshi

 Desire never ceases to pray even though the tongue be silent....

 —Augustine

 Attainment often lessens ambition, and possessions frequently paralyze
interest. We are always wanting something, and seldom satisfied when we
get it....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 We should not even desire rewards for our actions. He who looks to
rewards will become a slave to such rewards....

 —Julian P. Johnson

 Every desire bears its death in its very gratification. Curiosity
languishes under repeated stimulants, and novelties cease to excite
surprise, until at length we do not even wonder at a miracle....	—
Washington Irving

 It would not be better for mankind if they were given their desires....

 —Heraclitus

 Desires are like a forest fire....consuming and destroying
everything....

 —Philo

 It should be an indispensable rule in life to contract our desires to
our present condition, and whatever may be our expectations, to live
within the compass of what we actually possess....

 —Joseph Addison

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Desire	*	100	*	Desire

 	^p.	

 Man is greater than all the objects of his desire....	— Rabindranath
Tagore

 A man who has had his way is seldom happy, for generally he finds that
the way does not lead very far on this earth of desires which can never
be fully satisfied....	— Joseph Conrad

 When a man’s desires are boundless, his labors are endless. They will
set him a task he can never go through, and cut out work he can never
finish. The satisfaction he seeks is always absent and the happiness he
aims at is ever at a distance....	— John Balguy

 I have made it my habit to alter my desires rather than the order of
the world....	— Rene Descartes

 He who expects much will be disappointed; yet disappointment seldom
cures us of expectations....

 —Samuel Johnson

 Every desire is insatiable, and therefore is always in want....

 — Sextus, the Pythagorean

 The one who has come into the realization of the higher life no longer
has the desire for the accumulation of enormous wealth, any more than he
has a desire for any other excess....

 —Ralph W. Trine

 Who clings faithfully to God desires nothing for himself....

 —Itzikl of Radvil

 By annihilating the desires, you annihilate the mind. Every man without
passions has within him no principle of action, nor motive to act....

 —Claude Helvetius

 Where there is desire there is no fullness....	— Chidananda

 Desires and inspirations after the holy are the only ones as to which
the human soul can ever be assured that they will never meet with
disappointment....	— Marcia Macintosh

 It is not good to suppress desires as that gives them more strength. It
is much better to surrender them all to God....

 —Saradamma

 All experiences which loom out of contact with the five senses are the
sources of sorrow only. All these desires should be abandoned without
reserve....

 — Bhagavad-Gita

 Who is the greater conqueror? One who with vast armies invades
territories and subdues kingdoms, or one who conquers his own desires,
his own senses? He is the greater conqueror who has subdued himself, who
has conquered his own desires, subdued his own senses....	— Gautama
Buddha

 Our duty is to be useful, not according to our desires but according to
our powers....	— Henri F. Amiel

 Attachment is real death. Non-attachment is eternal life. Attachment
brings manifold miseries. Non-attachment brings manifold bliss.
Attachment contracts the heart. Non-attachment expands the heart ad
infinitum....

 —Sivananda

 There cannot be self-restraint in the absence of desire....	— Rumi

 Desire	is the	region	of hell, and all torments	are	centered	there. The
giving-

 up of desire is the realization of heaven, and all delights await the
pilgrim there....	— James Allen

 He who is utterly without desire has a happiness that ages not.... —
Santi-deva

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Desire 	♦?	 101	*	Desire

 It is difficult to overcome one’s passions, and it is impossible to
satisfy them....	 —Marguerite De la Sabiere

 If you did not desire your present position, you would not be doing
everything possible to maintain it....

 —Leo Tolstoy

 A life is either all spiritual or not spiritual at all. No man can
serve two masters. Your life is shaped by the end you live for. You are
made in the image of what you desire....	 —Thomas Merton

 When desire is quenched, peace is found....	 —Paul Brunton

 It is better to desire the things we have than to have the things we
desire....

 —Henry Van Dyke

 The thirst of desire is never filled, nor fully satisfied....	
—Cicero

 A person who represses all his ambitions and wishes and denies any
reality to them is on the road to misery. The person, on the other hand,
who consciously renounces unrealizable and unworthy desires, has
straightened himself by daring to face life as it is and making clear to
himself why he has chosen that course of action....

 —Joshua L. Liebrnan

 It is much easier to suppress a first desire than to satisfy those that
follow....	 —Francois La Rochefoucauld

 The soul....by reason of desire had become the principal accomplice in
her own captivity....Desires are only the lack of something: and those
who have the greatest desires are in a worse condition than those who
have none or very slight ones....	 —Plato

 What is strong? The man who can control his passions....	 —Ben Zoma

 All suffering is born of desire....Give up desire for pleasure and you
will not know what is pain....Only contentment can make you
happy—desires fulfilled breed more desires....	 —Nisargadatta

 Desire of having is the sin of covetous....	 —William Shakespeare

 It is with our passions, as it is with fire and water, they are good
servants but bad masters....  —Roger L'Estrange

 Covetousness is the root of all evil, the ground of all vice....

 —Leonard Wright

 Indulging in one’s desires in the hope of transcending them is like
attempting to extinguish a fire by pouring kerosene on it....	
—Lakshmana

 To live for the physical, mental and sensual pleasure is like building
a home on quicksand, or trying to cross a stream on the back of a
crocodile, believing it to be a tree trunk....  —Sankaracharya

 The man who wants everything is apt to end by being in want of
everything....	 —George H. Hepworth

 Just as children are not born without a mother, so passions and desires
are not born without wandering thoughts....

 —Isaac of Syria

 The desire of power in excess caused the angels to fall; the desire of
knowledge in excess caused man to fall....

 —Francis Bacon

 Desire grows in strength if you follow it, but dies if you turn from it
and abstain....Desire is slavery; renunciation is freedom....	 —Hermes

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Desire 	♦?	 102 	♦?	 Desire

 	 -fff’ 	

 All passions contain an element of sadness....	— Jonathan Eibeschutz

 When one renounces selfish desires, his love expands into the farthest
region of the universe until he becomes aware of cosmic love....	—
Sathya Sai Baba

 As a bird tied by the leg, when it starts to rise upwards, is pulled
back to earth by the string, so the mind which has not yet attained
desirelessness....is pulled back to the earth by desires....

 — St. Maximus

 When you most seek, and most anxiously desire, you will never find if
you seek for yourself, not even in the most profound contemplation; but
only in deep humility and submission of heart....	— John of the Cross

 Everything that the deep soul within thee craveth shall surely come to
thee by straight or winding passages....

 -—Ralph W. Emerson

 The easiest thing of all is to deceive oneself; for what a man wishes,
he generally believes to be true....

 —Demosthenes

 Limited in his nature, infinite in his desires, man is a fallen god who
remembers heaven....

 —Alphonse de Lamartine

 Madness lies in every passion....

 —Robert Benson

 We would often be sorry if our wishes were granted....	— Aesop

 They who are possessed by desire suffer much and enjoy little, as the
ox that drags the cart gets by a morsel of grass....	— Santi-deva

 Most of us die wishing we could live again, so many mistakes committed,
so much left undone....	— Nisargadatta

 Everything belongs to the man who wants nothing....He has God. That is
enough. Now he is ready to come back into the world. He is washed clean
of desires, now he can form new ones, from a new center and a new
motive....The fullest and most complete life comes out of the most
completely empty life....	— E. Stanley Jones

 From the deepest desire often ensues the deadliest hate....	—
Socrates

 Sexual desire is not love....mutual desire does not make things better.
It only means that each of the two persons is treating the other as a
means of self-satisfaction....	— John Macmurray

 Of all longings and desires none is stronger than sex. Sex as a desire
has no equal. Rely upon the Oneness. No one is able to become a follower
of the Way if he accepts dualism....

 —Gautama Buddha

 A life devoted to the interests and enjoyments of this world, spent and
wasted in the slavery of earthly desires, may be truly called a
dream....

 —William Law

 Know this: the object you crave is perishable and transient in itself.
How then can lasting peace be derived from it?...	— Papa Ramdas

 The man who seeks one, and but one thing in life may hope to achieve
it, but he who seeks all things, wherever he goes, only reaps from the
hopes which he sows, a harvest of barren regrets....

 —Edward Bulwer-Lytton

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Desire	*	103 	♦?	 Devil

 	 ‘SP?		

 Sensual pleasure is tantalizing. There is enchantment only as long as a
person does not possess the object. He exerts hard. His mind is full of
anxiety. He is under despondency as to whether he will secure the object
or not. The moment he is in possession of the object, the charm
vanishes. He finds that he is entangled....	— Sivananda

 Before we set our hearts too much upon any thing, let us examine how
happy those are who already possess it....	— Francois La Rochefoucauld

 When the gods want to punish us, they grant our desires....

 —Ancient Greek saying

 A full investigation into Truth will extinguish your desires at once,
and the extinction of desires will restore your mind to rest....	—
Yoga Vasishtha

 When a man is always occupied with the cravings of desire and ambition,
and is eagerly striving to satisfy them, all his thoughts must be
mortal....But he who has been earnest in the love of knowledge and
wisdom....must have thoughts immortal and divine....

 —Plato

 It is not good to be too free. It is not good to have everything one
wants....

 —Blaise Pascal

 The heart detached has no desire for anything nor has it anything to be
delivered from.... — Meister Eckhart

 Worldly desires are like columns of sunshine radiating through a dusty
window, nothing tangible, nothing there....	— Nahman Bratzlav

 When the one thought of God saturates your mind, naturally all other
desires will disappear from it...	— Papa Ramdas

  Devil 

 T

 o see the devil it is necessary tomake oneself up like the devil

 and then look in the mirror....

 —Eliphas Levi

 What people call Satan, the Devil, the Black Forces, etc., is simply
ignorance of the true Self....

 —Ramana Maharshi

 If you reflect upon the devil long enough, his horns will seem to
appear on everyone you meet....

 —Anonymous

 The devil is an egotist....

 —Johann W. Goethe

 Man can hardly even recognize the devils of his own creation....

 —Albert Schweitzer

 Anyone who lives for any length of time in a state of bitterness,
resentment, anger, or hostilty is living with demons....	— Elinor
MacDonald

 It is no good casting out devils. They belong to us and we must accept
them and be at peace with them....

 — D. H. Lawrence

 We cannot look for a devil to blame. There isn’t any....	— Joel
Goldsmith

 What is the demon? Your own mind. It is not outside, this demon is
inside; that complicates the battle. You have to go into yourself....
— Ch idananda

 Many weapons invented by great teachers of mankind for use against the
devil have been taken hold of by the devil himself....	— K.
Swaminathan

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Devil

 104

 The only devil from which men must be redeemed is self, the lower self.
If man would find his devil he must look within; his name is self....

 —The Aquarian Gospel

 If the devil does not exist, and man has therefore created him, he has
created him in his own image and likeness....

 —Fyodor Dostoyevsky

 God is good, there is no devil but fear; nothing can harm us, the
Universe is planned for our good....

 —Elbert Hubbard

 Hell or the devil has no abiding place except in man’s mortal mind.
Both of them are just wherever man places them. I never saw the devil in
any man, save he brought him there himself....

 —Baird Spalding

 When the devil is called the God of this world, it is not because he
made it, but because we serve him with our worldliness....	— Thomas
Aquinas

 The devil is a myth, hence he exists and continues to be active. A myth
is a story which describes and illustrates in dramatic form certain deep
structures of reality....	— Denis de Rougemont

 The only real devil that exists in this or any other world is the man
whose business is that of making devils....

 —Napoleon Hill

 The devil is in whatever tries to master you. If you do not resist, he
will temporarily master you....Resist the devil and he will flee from
you....

 —Prentice Mulford

 Stand up to the devil and he will turn and run. Come close to God and
God will come close to you....

 —New Testament

 The devil is compromise....

 Discipline

 -Henrik Ibsen

 The Devil hunts down those who are frightened of him, and flees those
who resist him boldly. The art of chaining up demons is to do good and
fear nothing....	— Eliphas Levi

 When once we believe in the Sovereignty of God, satanic influence
becomes a thing of the past. Evil can only affect us through our own
evil. Evil has power only on its own plane: it has no part in the Divine
Providence....

 —Henry T. Hamblin

 Egotism is the most persistent and obstinate devil in us, and unless we
receive help from God we cannot conquer the devil.... —
Ramakrishnananda

  Discipline 

 I

 f you have mastered yourself, naturewill obey you....	— Eliphas Levi

 Be gentle to all and stern with yourself....	— Teresa of Avila

 When you learn to discipline your mind, you become master of your mind
rather than your mind being master of you....	— Ormond McGill

 If you are doing things you know you shouldn’t do and don’t really
want to do, you certainly lack discipline....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 Discipline is a quality. You start with a little bit of it, you submit
yourself to authority and a job and a goal, and you learn a bit more
about discipline....

 —Charles E. Jones

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Discipline	*	105	*	Discipline

 What makes a man a good artist, a good sculptor, a good musician?
Practice. What makes a man a good linguist, a good stenographer?
Practice. What makes a man a good man? Practice. Nothing else....	—
Henry Drummond

 He who cannot obey himself will be commanded. This is the nature of
living creatures....

 —Friedrich W. Nietzsche

 The only worthy discipline is self-discipline....	— Wayne Dyer

 If you cannot command your own soul, how can I give you enlightenment
how to do so?...	— Marjorie Bowen

 A  horse that resists the reins, a car without brakes and a person with
no self- control, are all equally headed for disaster....	— Sathya Sai
Baba

 The man who refuses to submit to discipline is like a river that
overflows its banks, thereby destroying the means by which it could
reach the sea....Fortunately, it is not left entirely to us to
discipline ourselves. Life does it for us....

 —Alice H. Rice

 Self-discipline does within while you do without....	— Denis Waitley

 If self-control were easy to obtain, we’d end up accomplishing
nothing at all....

 —Marvin Minsky

 Most powerful is he who has himself in his own power....	— Seneca

 Not to have control over the senses is like sailing in a rudderless
ship, bound to break into pieces on coming in contact with the very
first rock....

 —Mohandas Gandhi

 Discipline is the ability to carry out a resolution long after the mood
has left you. The mountain of soul-achievement and mastery of life
cannot be scaled by the faint of heart. Without discipline, you won’t
make it to the mountain top....	— Susan Smith Jones

 The difference between a savior and a sinner is this: that the one has
perfect control of all the forces within him; the other is dominated and
controlled by them....	— James Allen

 No man is free who cannot command himself....	— Pythagoras

 No conflict is so severe as his who labors to subdue himself....

 —Thomas a Kempis

 Self-discipline is your golden key; without it, you cannot be happy....

 —Maxwell Maltz

 The superior man is uncontaminated by pleasure, unharmed by pain,
untouched by any insult, feeling no wrong, not overpowered by passion,
dyed deep with justice, accepting with all his soul everything which is
assigned to him as his portion....

 —Marcus Aurelius

 Self-conquest is the greatest of victories....	— Plato

 The most precious of all possessions is power over ourselves; power to
withstand trial, to bear suffering; to confront danger; power over
pleasure and pain; power to follow our convictions....

 —John Locke

 He that cannot decidedly say “No” when tempted to evil is on the
highway to ruin....	— Joel Hawes

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Discipline

 106

 -  c xps 9  -

 Discipline

 To change an undesirable trait, you must zero in on exactly what it is
you need to change....	— Joyce Brothers

 Carpenters bend wood; fletchers bend arrows; wise men fashion
themselves....

 —Gautama Buddha

 Without consistency there is no moral strength....	— John J. Owen

 I consider that the greatest discovery of my life is this: I have
learned that within me resides the power to control my own moods....	—
Wright Field

 Discipline divorced from wisdom is not true discipline, but merely the
meaningless following of custom, which is a disguise for ignorance....

 —Rabindranath Tagore

 There never has been, and cannot be, a good life without self-control;
apart from self-control, no good life is imaginable.. ..	— Herbert
Spencer

 One must train oneself, by small and frequent efforts, to dominate
one’s feelings....	— Alexis Carrel

 It is not possible to discipline ourselves so effectively if out of
touch with the world, as while pursuing the world-life with wisdom....
— Manu

 Discipline is learnt in the school of adversity....	— Mohandas Gandhi

 Conquer thyself. Till thou hast done this, thou art a slave....

 —Richard E. Burton

 One of the most important, but one of the most difficult things for a
powerful mind, is to be its own master....

 —Joseph Addison

 There is no king like him who is king of himself....	— St. Cadoc

 Self-control confers contentment....

 —Samhita

 Such power there is in clear-eyed self- restraint....	— James Russell
Lowell

 He who reigns within himself and rules his passions, desires and fears
is more than a king....	— John Milton

 I never suspected that....there were specific disciplines and ways of
seeing the world I had to master before I could awaken to a simple,
happy, uncomplicated life....	— Dan Millman

 Nothing gives one person so much advantage over another as to remain
cool and unruffled under all circumstances....	— Thomas Jefferson

 Above everything, you must command yourself, and your true self is not
your wildly roving thoughts....

 —Berthold Auerbach

 Nothing exterior shall ever take command of me....	— Walt Whitman

 Learn to say no. It will be of more use to you than to be able to read
Latin....

 —Charles H. Spurgeon

 Self-knowledge and self-improvement are very difficult for most people.
It usually needs great courage and long struggle....	— Abraham Maslow

 If you would learn self-mastery, begin by yielding yourself to the One
Great Master....	— Johann Lobstein

 Common-sense is the fundamental factor in all spiritual disciplines. No
rule is an eternal rule. Rules change from place to place, time to time
and from one condition to another condition....

 —Sivananda

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Discipline 	♦?	 1

 Man must be disciplined, for he is by nature raw and wild....

 —Immanuel Kant

 The disciplined man masters thoughts by stillness and emotions by
calmness....	— Lao-tzu

 People who have learned to control themselves, who do not live on the
surface of their being, but who reach down into the depths, where, in
the stillness, the voice of God is heard....are not affected by the
thousand and one storms and tempests....

 —Orison S. Marden

 Our own inner child has to be disciplined in order to release its
tremendous spiritual power....

 —Marion Woodman

 Self-control may be developed, precisely the same manner as we tone up
a weak muscle—by little exercises day by day....	— W. G. Jordan

 When reason is not the master, the senses usually swing back and
forth....

 —Maximus

 It is one thing to praise discipline, and another thing to submit to
it....

 —Miguel de Cervantes

 Subdue the animal within you; conquer every selfish uprising, every
discordant voice; transmute the base metals of your selfish nature into
the unalloyed gold of Love....

 —Jaynes Allen

 The control man has secured over nature has far outrun his control over
himself....	— Ernest Jones

 The virtue of all achievement is victory over oneself. Those who know
this victory can never know defeat....

 — A. J. Cronin

 >7 *	Discipline

 S 3  	

 Strength doesn’t come from physical capacity. It comes from an
indomitable will....	— Mohandas Gandhi

 Mistake, error, is the discipline through which we advance....

 —William E. Channiyig

 Cheerfulness is the rich and satisfying result of strenuous
discipline....

 —Edwin P. Whipple

 Be kings, not slaves, of your passions....

 —Raphael Elijah

 We go all wrong by too strenuous a resolution to go all right....

 —Nathaniel Hawthoyne

 He that has not mastery over his inclinations, he that knows not how to
resist the importunity of present pleasure or pain....is in danger of
never being good for anything....	— John Locke

 Who has a harder fight than he who is striving to overcome self?...

 —Thomas a Kempis

 Man has six organs to serve him, and he is master only of three. He
cannot control his eye, ear or nose, but he can his mouth, hand and
foot....

 —Amora Levi

 The first and best victory is to conquer self. To be conquered by self
is, of all things, the most shameful and vile....

 —Plato

 There never has been, and cannot be, a good life without
self-control....

 —Leo Tolstoy

 Whoever preaches absence of discipline is an enemy of progress....

 —Max Nordau

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Discipline	*	108	*	Doubt

 	 ft? 	

 Exercise, exercise your powers; what is difficult will finally become
routine....

 —Georg C. Lichteriberg

 No one is free who is not master of himself....	— William Shakespeare

  M 

  Doubt 

 I

 t is the human condition to questionone god after another; one appear-

 ance after another; or better, oneapparition after another, always
pursu-ing the truth of the imagination....

 —Alain LeSage

 Despair is an expression of the total personality, doubt only of
thought....

 —Soren Kierkegaard

 The doubter’s dissatisfaction with his doubt is as great and
widespread as the doubt itself....	— Jan DeWitt

 Doubt is really a groping ignorance....

 —Eliphas Levi

 Doubt destroys. Faith builds....

 —Robert Collier

 Hidden doubts and fears build walls around you....	— Paul Williams

 There is no greater hell than doubts....

 -—Amar Jyoti

 God gave us faith. The devil introduced doubt....	— Fred Van Amburgh

 We do not listen to and do not follow this voice within our own souls,
and so we become a house divided against itself. We are pulled this way
and that, and we are never certain of anything....

 —Ralph W. Trine

 Doubt is the vestibule through which all must pass before they can
enter the temple of wisdom....

 —Charles C. Colton

 Indecision, doubt and fear. The members of this unholy trio are closely
related; where one is found, the other two are close at hand.... —
Napoleon Hill

 If a man will begin with certainties, he shall end in doubts, but if he
will be content to begin with doubts, he shall end in certainties....
— Francis Bacon

 Doubts are more cruel than the worst of truths....	— Jean B. Moliere

 Doubts arise because of the absence of surrender....	— Ramana
Maharshi

 Doubt is like a little germ which gets lodged in the heart and infects
the whole being....	 —Paramananda

 When you doubt, abstain....

 —Zoroaster

 Let go of the things of which you are in doubt for the things in which
there is no doubt....	— Mohammed

 The intelligence of a doubting person dwindles; wherever he looks, he
sees nothing but doubt....

 —Nityananda

 Doubt is brother devil to despair....

 —John B. O’Reilly

 Skepticism is slow suicide....Skepticism is unbelief in cause and
effect....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 There is no weariness like that which arises from doubting—from the
perpetual jogging of unfixed reason....

 —Robert Smith

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Doubt

 Doubt of whatever kind, can be endedby Action alone.... — Thomas
Carlyle

 Doubt is not a pleasant condition, butcertainty is an absurd one....
— Voltaire

 Never doubt that a small group ofthoughtful, committed citizens
canchange the world; indeed, it’s the onlything that ever has....

 —Margaret Mead

 Doubt grows with knowledge....

 —Johann W. Goethe

 The end of doubt is the beginning ofrepose....	— Petrarch

 Doubt is the disease of this inquisitive,restless age. It is the price
we pay forour advanced intelligence and civiliza-tion—the dim light of
our resplendentday. But as the most beautiful night isborn of darkness,
so the faith thatsprings from conflict is often thestrongest and
best....

 —Robert J. Turnbull

 Doubt indulged soon becomes doubtrealized....	— Francis R. Haver gal

 They who have conquered doubt andfears have conquered failure.
Theirevery thought is allied with power, andall difficulties are bravely
met and wise-ly overcome....	— James Allen

 Where doubt is, there truth is—it is hershadow....	— Gamaliel
Bailey

 If you wait for the perfect momentwhen all is safe and assured, it
maynever arrive. Mountains may never beclimbed, races won, nor
happinessachieved....	 —Maurice	Chevalier

 It is only by doubting that we eventual-

 ly come to the truth....	— Cicero

 109 *	Doubt

 pp 	

 Doubt is hell in the human soul....

 —Madam Gasparin

 A fanatic is a man who consciouslyovercompensates a secret doubt....

 —Aldous Huxley

 If you would be a real seeker of thetruth, it is necessary at least
once inyour life to doubt, as far as possible, allthings....	— Rene
Descartes

 With most people, doubt about onething is simply blind belief in
anoth-er....	— Georg C. Lichtenberg

 To know much is often the cause ofdoubting more....	— Michel
Montaigne

 When you have constant communionwith God, a constant receiving
fromwithin, there is never any doubt; youknow your way....	— Peace
Pilgrim

 Our doubts are traitors, and make uslose the good we oft might win by
fear-ing to attempt....

 —William Shakespeare

 The important thing is not to stop ques-tioning....	— Albert Einstein

 Doubt comes in the window wheninquiry is denied at the door....

 —Benjamin Jowett

 Doubt is a greater mischief thandespair....	— John Denham

 Doubt is the beginning, not the end ofwisdom....	— George Reo

 Man never encounters a mountaingreater than doubt. Doubt is a
deceiver.It is as a thief in the night. Removeit....do not let it come
nigh yourdwelling. Never doubt. Learn to sayand learn to mean it, “I
am the all ofeverything good.”...	— Frater Achad

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Doubt	*	110

    •* Doubting is truly a component of man’s worst nature. It clips
the wings of joy; it dampens enthusiasm, it tarnishes hope. Such men
cannot attain the goal even at the end of a thousand births....	—
Sathya Sai Baba

 When you are in doubt, be still, and wait. When doubt no longer exists
for you, then go forward in courage....	— White Eagle

 As long as there is a material body, you are carrying doubt Do not
despise your doubting. That is the human condition. When there is no
more doubt you do not need to be human....	— Emmanuel

 The supreme fall of falls is this, the first doubt of one’s self....

 —Comtesse de Gasparin

  M 

  Dreams 

 M

 ost of the things we think oftoday as hard, practical and

 even indispensable were once merelydreams....	— Carroll Carroll

 Dream delivers us to dream and there is no end to illusion....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 If a man advances confidently in the direction of his dreams to live
the life he has imagined, he will meet with success unexpected in common
hours....

 —Henry D. Thoreau

 Hold fast to dreams for if dreams die, life is a broken-winged bird
that cannot fly....	 —La	ngston	Hughes

 Within our dreams and aspirations we find our opportunities....

 —Sue A. Ebaugh

  Dreams 

 Dream lofty dreams, and as you dream, so shall you become. Your Vision
is the promise of what you shall one day be, your Ideal is the prophecy
of what you shall at last unveil....	— James Allen

 Without dreams, the illusion is gone....

 —A Spiritual Warrior

 We’ve removed the ceiling above our dreams. There are no more
impossible dreams....	— Jesse Jackson

 Dreams are so important in one’s life, yet when followed blindly they
can lead to the disintegration of the soul....

 —Maria Campbell

 Whatever you can do or dream you can, begin it. Boldness has genius,
power, and magic in it. Begin it now....

 —Johann W. Goethe

 One of the characteristics of the dream is that nothing surprises us in
it. With no regret, we agree to live in it with strangers, completely
cut off from our habits and friends....	— Jean Cocteau

 It can be a very dangerous thing to go in search of a dream for the
reality does not always match it....	— Grade Fields

 We grow through our dreams. All great men and women are dreamers....

 —Woodrow Wilson

 Great dreams contain inexhaustible truths, and orient us, like runes,
toward our futures....Great dreams are like wells that never run dry....

 —Michael Grosso

 Dreams are real while they last. Can we say more of life?...	—
Havelock Ellis

 Too many dreams are cast by the wayside in deference to opinion and
tradition....	— Alan Cohen

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Dreams	*	111	*	Dreams

 Man is the garden in which this only begotten Son of God sleeps. We
awaken this Son by lifting our imagination up to heaven and clothing men
in godlike stature....	— Darwin Gross

 Have a dream and believe in it. Strong dreams always come true....

 —Robert Muller

 Dreams retain the infirmities of our character....	— Ralph W. Emerson

 High on the wall, in the castle of your dreams of success, hangs the
picture of what you want to be. Always keep that picture hanging there.
See yourself where you intend to be. Night and day dream of what you
intend to do and what you intend to be, for your dreams interpret your
intentions always. All successes are, at first, dreams....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 If you can dream it, you can do it....

 —Walt Disney

 The greatest achievement was at first and for a time a dream. The oak
sleeps in the acorn; the bird waits in the egg; and in the highest
vision of the soul, a waking angel stirs. Dreams are the seedlings of
realities....	— James Allen

 Tens of thousands of forests lie dormant within the dreams of one
acorn....

 —Anonymous

 One-pointedness is the ability to exclude from your mind all thoughts
but the one you want to be possessed by. It is the power to concentrate
on your dream until it has become more than a dream....	— Robert
Collier

 If you can imagine it, you can achieve it. If you can dream it, you can
become it....	— William A. Ward

 If you have built castles in the air, your work need not be lost; that
is where they should be. Now put the foundations under them....

 —Henry D. Thoreau

 Waiting and hoping are the whole of life, and as soon as a dream is
realized it is destroyed....

 —Giancarlo Menotti

 When your heart’s dream becomes a burning desire to achieve and
accomplish its specific purpose, the entire cosmos opens its doors to
you....

 —Lloyd Littlepage

 You must learn to turn your....dreams into exactly expressed targets.
Once you have done so, and know just where you are heading, you are then
in a position to see immediately an opportunity when it comes your
way....

 — R. J. Heathom

 Take time to dream—it is hitching your wagon to a star....	— Irish
prayer

 Existence would be intolerable if we were never to dream....

 —Anatole France

 All that we see or seem is but a dream within a dream....	— Edgar A.
Poe

 All men dream—but not equally. Those who dream by night in the dusty
recesses of their minds wake in the day to find it was vanity: but the
dreamers of the day are dangerous men, for they may act their dreams
with open eyes, to make it possible.... — T. E. Lawrence

 Nothing happens unless first a dream....

 —Carl Sandburg

 Dreaming is an act of pure imagination, attesting in all men a creative
power....	— Frederick H. Hedge

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Dreams

 Dreams are true while they last, and do we not live in dreams?...

 —Alfred L. Tennyson

 The years forever fashion new dreams when old ones go. God pity the
one- dream man....	— Robert Goddard

 Waking life is a dream controlled....

 —George Santayana

 How can you determine whether at this moment we are sleeping, and all
our thoughts are a dream: or whether we are awake, and talking to one
another in the waking state....	— Plato

 Dream big dreams, then put on your overalls and go out and make the
dreams come true....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 It may be those who do most, dream most....	— Stephen Leacock

 Nothing so much convinces me of the boundlessness of the human mind as
its operations in dreaming....

 —William B. Clulow

 Dreams are the touchstones of our character....	— Henry D. Thoreau

 Man is a dream of a shadow....

 —Pindar

 The dreamers are the saviors of the world. As the visible world is
sustained by the invisible, so men, through all their trials and sins
and sordid vocations, are nourished by the visions of their solitary
dreamers....

 —James Allen

 Most dreams represent either wanderings on the psychic realm or
illusions produced by physical, mental or emotional stresses, and should
be promptly forgotten.... — Peace Pilgrim

 Duality

 Kill a dream and the dreamer dies too....	— Leonard M. Foley

 &

  Duality 

 P

 eople wish to swim and at the sametime keep one foot on the ground....

 —Marcel Proust

 Joy is at its keenest when contrasted with sorrow, courage at its
height when it follows fear, faith at its noblest when it grows from
doubt....

 —Alice H. Rice

 Duality is not real, because reality is the opposite of eternity.
Without duality there is no perception....

 —Sivananda

 You cannot alter your shadow except by altering yourself....It is the
same with life: outward circumstances are merely what we are within, and
can be altered only as we ourselves become inwardly changed....

 —Henry T. Hamblin

 Upon the battlefield of the human soul two masters are ever contending
for the crown of supremacy, for the kingship and dominion of the heart:
the master of self, called also the “prince of this world,” and the
master of Truth, called also the Father God....	— James Allen

 If you stand straight, do not fear a crooked shadow....	— Chinese
proverb

 Each of us can feel a dual life within ourselves. The struggle of the
mind against the conscience; of unmanly desire against noble feelings;
in a word, of the brute against the intelligent creature....	— Eliphas
Levi

 ♦?  112  ♦?

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Duality	*	1

 All suffering begins with a notion of duality. As long as this
duality-con- sciousness is strongly fixed in the mind, one cannot give
real help to other people. If one realizes one’s nondual nature and
becomes peaceful within, one becomes a fit instrument to help others....
— Annamalai Swami

 There is no fruit which is not bitter before it is ripe....	—
Publilius Syrus

 The sense of duality vanishes completely once you realize your identity
with God. You and He become one. The drop becomes one with the ocean....

 —Papa Ramdas

 The maker fused duality in all; sorrow and joy foremost of all these
pairs....

 —Manu

 They only who love God with a steadfast mind can cross the ocean of
duality, and they who rise above this dualness, they only know God as
the One Sole Truth....	— Bhagavad-Gita

 Man is as full of potentiality as he is of impotence.... — George
Santayana

 When the Reality is experienced, there is no duality at all	

 -—Sathya Sai Baba

 All behavior consists of opposites....Learn to see things backward,
inside out, and upside down....	— Lao-tzu

 In the world duality always exists....

 —Nisargadatta

 The world and Reality are negations of each other. They cannot be seen
simultaneously....	— Ramana Maharshi

 The exterior man may be undergoing trials, but the interior man is
quite free....	— Meister Eckhart

 3 *	Duality

 ?  	

 Yin and yang, male and female, strong and weak, rigid and tender,
heaven and earth, light and darkness, thunder and lightning, cold and
warmth, good and evil....the interplay of opposite principles
constitutes the universe....

 —Confucius

 Where there is much light, the shadow is deep....	— Johann W. Goethe

 The mind stream on two rival currents flows, heading to virtue and
vice....

 —Yogi Bhashya

 We cannot possibly imagine the variety of contradictions in every
heart....

 —Francois La Rochefoucauld

 The rose and the thorn, and sorrow and gladness are linked together....

 —Saadi

 Man was made for joy and woe; and when this we rightly know, safely
through the world we go....

 —William Blake

 The world is made of pairs of opposites; all things occur in pairs of
two and two....Two birds of wondrous plumage rest awhile on the curious
tree of bodied life; One eats the sweet-sour fruits with eager greed,
and suffers many ills in consequence; the other looks on
compassionately.... — The Upanishads

 Good and evil; altruism and egotism; both are inherent in each living
thing....

 —Shankaracharya

 There is in reality neither truth nor error, neither yes nor no, nor
any distinction whatsoever, since all—including the contraries—is
One....

 —Chuang Tse

 To the man of God right and wrong are alike....	— Divani Shamsi
Tabriz

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Duality	*	114

 	ispr	-

 Two people have been living in you all of your life. One is the ego,
garrulous, demanding, hysterical, calculating; the other is the hidden
spiritual being, whose still voice of wisdom you have only rarely heard
or attended to....

 —Sogyal Rinpoche

 If there be light, then there is darkness; if cold, then heat; if
height, depth also; if solid, then fluid; hardness and softness;
roughness and smoothness; calm and tempest; prosperity and adversity;
life and death....	— Pythagoras

 A hair’s breadth divides heaven from hell. Both are ever present in
us. Now the one prevails, now the other....

 —Bhagavan Das

 Everything is plain and easy to the earnest; it is the double-minded
who find difficulties.... — John H. Newman

 Each of us can feel a dual life within ourselves. The struggle of the
mind against the conscience; of unmanly desire against noble feelings;
in a word, of the brute against the intelligent creature....	— Eliphas
Levi

 Our mind is placed between two entities, each suggesting what belongs
to it: one virtue, the other vice; that is between an angel and a demon.
But the mind has the power and strength to follow or oppose which it
wills....

 —Maximus

 Negations serve to glorify positives. Thus death glorifies immortality,
ignorance glorifies wisdom, misery glorifies bliss, night glorifies
dawn....

 —Sathya Sai Baba

 Humility is the root of honor, lowliness the foundation of loftiness;
the world’s weakest overcomes the world’s hardest....	— Lao-tzu

 Duality

 No man can serve two masters; for either he will hate the one and love
the other; or else he will hold to one, and despise the other. You
cannot serve God and Mammon....	— Jesus

 Two men look out through the same bars; one sees the mud, and one the
stars....	— Frederick Langbridge

 As long as you are concerned about what you do, that is dualistic....

 —Shunryu Suzuki

 It’s as though we have two selves or two natures or two wills with
two contrary viewpoints....Your lower self sees you as the center of the
universe—your higher self sees you as a cell in the body of
humanity....	 —Peace	Pilgrim

 Every man, in reality, is two men. The man he is, and the man he could
be....

 —Earl Nightingale

 The Masters say that the soul has two faces. The higher one always sees
God, the lower one looks downward and informs the senses....

 —Meister Eckhart

 The greatest flood has soonest ebb; the sorest tempest, the most sudden
calm; the hottest love the coldest end; and from the deepest desire
often ensues the deadliest hate....	— Socrates

 By passion for the pairs of opposites, by those twin snares of like and
dislike, all creatures live bewildered, save some few who, quit of sins,
holy in act, informed, freed from the opposites, and fixed in faith,
cleave unto God....

 -— Bhagavad-Gita

 There are two souls in my own breast, and one is determined to beat
down the other....	— Johann W. Goethe

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Duality 	♦?	 115	*	Ego/Vanity

   	

 Good and evil are merely conceptional and relative. What is good for
one may be bad for another. There are no fixed standards, but only those
set by the mind....	— Papa Ramdas

 For everything you have missed, you have gained something else; and for
everything you gain, you lose something....	— Ralph W. Emerson

 Are there two entities in the human body? Yes and No. They seem two,
but they become one....	— Paramananda

 In the external universe there is ceaseless turmoil, change, and
unrest; at the heart of all things there is undisturbed repose; in this
deep silence dwelleth the Eternal. Man partakes of this duality, and
both the surface change and disquietude, and the deep-seated eternal
abode of Peace are contained within him....	— James Allen

 It is innocence that is full and experience that is empty. It is
innocence that wins and experience that loses. It is innocence that is
young and experience that is old. It is innocence that grows and
experience that wanes. It is innocence that is born and experience that
dies. It is innocence that knows and experience that does not know....

 —Charles Peguy

 I contradict myself. I am large. I contain multiples....	— Walt
Whitman

 Good is that which makes for unity; evil is that which makes for
separation....	— Aldous Huxley

 Anyone who serves God will discover sooner or later that the great
hinder- ance to his work is not others but himself. He will discover
that his outward man and his inward man are not in harmony, for both are
tending toward opposite directions.... -— Watchman Nee

  M 

  Ego/Vanity 

 T

 o  be egotistic is to be blind to theneeds, and the reality, of
others....

 —Robert Mueller

 The ego cannot be blamed for its ignorance of reality, it specializes
in fantasy....The ego cannot gain spiritual maturity through fantasy,
and thus all the problems of relating between persons arise....	— A
Spiritual Warrior

 The ego is like a crooked tree. If you catch it when it is small, it is
easy to tie to a stick and straighten out. If you wait till it has grown
big, it is far more difficult to control.... — Saradamma

 An inflated consciousness is always egocentric and conscious of nothing
but its own existence. It is incapable of learning from the past,
incapable of understanding contemporary events, and incapable of drawing
right conclusions about the future. It is hypnotized by itself and
therefore cannot be argued with. It inevitably dooms itself to
calamities that must strike it dead....

 —Carl Jung

 When you are governed by your ego, you are selfish and materialistic,
but insofar as you follow the promptings of your higher self, you will
see things realistically and find harmony within yourself and others....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 The tendency of the ego to be humble is like the tendency of water to
flow uphill....	— Anonymous

 Your ego is an event and not a thing, and it is in a continual state of
flux; it changes a thousand times each day and takes a thousand
forms....	— Ormond McGill

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Ego/Vanity

 Any true gentility mellows the ego, not by weakening its strength but
by diminishing its arrogance, its false exclusiveness, its pretense of
ulti- macy....	— Adrian van Kaan

 All pruning of the ego is of little use, for as one fault is removed a
new one springs out of latency....

 —Paul Brunton

 The ego is just like a ghost. It has no real form of its
own....Identifying oneself with the body and mind results in ignorance
of the Self. This is how the ego takes birth. Detaching ourselves and
disengaging from the body and the mind results in the death of the
ego....

 —Annamalai Swami

 Flattery is counterfeit money which, but for vanity, would have no
circulation....

 —Francois La Rochefoucauld

 The more you prune a plant, the more it grows. So too the more you seek
to annihilate the ego, the more it will increase. You should seek the
root of the ego and destroy it....

 —Ramana Maharshi

 The ego is like an iceberg. Ninety percent of it is underwater. As we
observe it, the submerged begins to move into the light of observation,
and melts in the light of awareness....

 —Meher Baba

 In a futile quest for pleasure, the ego resembles a dancing horse on a
carousel; around and around the ego travels, up and down on the
merry-go- round of life....	— Shantidasa

 Vanity will set a crown upon its own head and wonder why all men do not
rush to acknowledge it king. It will bray like an ass and imagine itself
singing in a grand opera....	— Julian P. Johnson

  116 *	Ego/Vanity 

 ‘Xp?  		

 Egolessness is impersonality. Person-ality seems to be something,
andimpersonality nothing. But that’sbecause we do not easily see
thatpersonality is limitation to a body,while impersonality is the
absence oflimitation....Impersonality is Con-sciousness undiminished....

 —Lakshmana Sarma

 All....striving is a function of the ego,dissatisfied with what
actually is,needing to become, to reaffirm itsexistence as a real
thing....

 —Karl Sperber

 One may understand the cosmos, butnever the ego; the self is more
distantthan any star.... — G. K. Chesterton

 The ego has convinced us that we needit—not only that we need it, but
that weare it....	— Ram Dass

 The ego is a self-satisfying historianwhich seeks only that information
thatagrees with it, rewrites history when itneeds to, and does not even
see the evi-dence that threatens it....

 —Anthony G. Greenwald

 Self-centeredness....takes two forms:Thinking too well of one’s self
and

 thinking too ill It is harder to cure the

 latter than the former....

 —Alice H. Rice

 To the one devoid of ego, the wholeworld is a heaven of rest, a realm
ofpeace and a kingdom abounding in allhappiness. He who has no ego and
whohas surrendered himself to God is themaster of every power and
force....

 —Sivananda

 We tell you this: We are doing the

 impossible. We are teaching ourselvesto be human....	— Martha Courto

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065    Ego/Vanity 

 Nothing seems to happen exactly as its ego desires. It is simply the
mind clouded over by impure desires, and impervious to wisdom, which
stubbornly persists in thinking of “me” and “mine.”...	—
Gautama Buddha

 The problem is that the ego can convert anything to its own use, even
spirituality. Ego is constantly attempting to acquire and apply the
teachings of spirituality for its own benefit....

 —Chogyam Trungpa

 Intrinsically, there is no ego—it is something that we ourselves
create....

 —Roshi P. Kayleau

 The ego-life is not life but death....

 — K. Swaminathan

 Self-realization is the great goal of living, but where the ego is,
realization is not....	— Robert S. Ellwood

 The ego is like an empty glass that dips itself into the ocean and
after emerging filled to the brim, cries out: “This is me!”...	—
Anonymous

 To sum up all in a word: Nothing has separated us from God but our own
will, or rather our own will is our separation from God....	— William
Law

 The greed to possess things that you see is caused by egotism. Love all
things as expression of God’s glory, but do not delude yourself into
the belief that possessing them will make you happy....

 —Sathya Sai Baba

 Let no one think he has been appointed the Savior....	— Johann W.
Goethe

 Half of the harm that is done in the world is due to people who want to
feel important....	—	 T.	S.	Eliot

 117 *	Ego/Vanity

 Think of a vast ocean filled with water on all sides. A jar is immersed
in it. There is water both inside and outside the jar; but the water
does not become one unless the jar is broken....What is the jar? It is
I-consciousness—the ego. When the I disappears, what is, remains....
— Ramahrishna

 The ego has the power of making imaginative forms which can be used in
the world of purification or made....to magnify fears, passions and
powers....

 —Ray Mitchell

 Egotism erects its center in itself; love places it out of itself in
the axis of the universal whole....

 —Friedrich von Schiller

 When a man is wrapped up in himself he makes a pretty small package....

 —John Ruskin

 Vanity is an inordinate desire for the notice, approval, or praise of
others....Vanity is always a mark of inferiority. All exaggerated
attitudes of superior knowledge, wisdom, authority and morality are
unmistaken indicators of the opposite qualities. They are the most
obvious attempts to pose as superiority, weakness masquerading as
strength....	— Thurman Fleet

 Of all the foolish vices, vanity is the foolishest....	— Fred Van
Amburgh

 We do not content ourselves with the life we have in ourselves; we
desire to live an imaginary life in the minds of others, and for this
purpose we endeavor to shine....	— Blaise Pascal

 Just about the most useless desire we can have is the desire to impress
other people....	— Vernon Howard

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Ego/Vanity 	♦?	 118	*	Ego/Vanity

 	 tv? 	

 It is the admirer of himself, and not the admirer of virtue, who thinks
himself superior to others....	— Plutarch

 Our limited self is the wall separating us from the self of God....It
is being dead to self that is the recognition of God....	— Hazrat
Inayat Khan

 The source of our actions resides in an unconscious propensity to
regard ourselves as the center, the cause and the conclusion of time....
— E. M. Cioran

 Vanity of vanities; all is vanity....

 —Ecclesiastes

 The ego thinks from a small standpoint in the center. It thinks
outward. It seeks to know by groping in the unknown, attempting to
rationalize what it finds there. Since infinite space surrounds it, it
is impossible for it to ever grow into great understanding....

 — U. S. Anderson

 All suffering surely revolves around egotism and egotism is the sole
cause of mental distress....	— Yoga Vasistha

 The most overrated thing in the world is your opinion of
yourself....the more you think yourself spiritual....the more the ego
deflates itself....

 —Raymond C. Barker

 Intolerance itself is a form of egoism, and to condemn egoism
intolerantly is to share it....	— George Santayana

 We are so vain that we even care for the opinion of those we don’t
care for....

 —Marie Von Ebner-Eschenbach

 The way of the ego is to have us forget about God by getting and
attaching ourselves to people and things....

 —Gerald Jampolsky

 The ego endlessly pulls us from one burning desire to another. Somehow
the ego wishes to impose its will on events, to pretend that its needs,
its plans are the most important, that it knows all, and knows what is
best for us....	— A.	Haji

 It is the ego that is the great bar to spiritual progress. If you want
ego, then you can’t have God. If you want God, then you must be
crowned with humility....

 —Paramanatida

 The ego frightens us in innumerable ways: with death, with pain, with
loneliness....	— Lily Benatar

 Keep God in remembrance until your self is forgotten....	— Shams
Tabriz

 Egotism: the art of seeing in yourself what others cannot see....

 —George Higgins

 All unhappiness is due to the ego. With it comes all your trouble. If
you would deny the ego and scorch it by ignoring it you would be
free....

 —Ramana Maharshi

 The root of all discontent is self-love....

 —James F. Clarke

 Men are just like animals so long as they are subject to the ego....

 —The Upanishads

 The ego, the lower nature, is of persistent character. It struggles
fiercely not to die. The ego lives by denying what is real, conveniently
ignoring truth in the process....	— Shantidasa

 The ego is....primarily engaged in its own defense and the furtherance
of its own ambitions. Everything that interferes with it must be
repressed....

 —-Jack Sanford

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065    Ego/Vanity 

 The ego is simply the ignorance that limits the real Self to a single
body out of a multitude of bodies, all of which are its own
creation....We need to realize in all its implications the fact that the
ego itself is the source of all the evil that besets life....

 —Lakshmana Sarma

 Self-love is the greatest of all flatters....

 —Francois La Rochefoucauld

 Man seeks something which will give him a brief moment of satisfaction;
and his ego will often follow the most tortuous paths to obtain this
moment....

 — Hans-Ulrick Rieker

 The great corrupter of public man is the ego....Looking at the mirror
distracts one’s attention from the problem....	— Dean Acheson

 The only thing which a man must renounce if he wishes to attain the
Supreme Truth is the notion of individuality—nothing else....A man who
is entirely free from the ego-sense is the happiest man in the world.
Because, he has found God—absolute existence, consciousness and
bliss—in place of the ego....	— Papa Ramdas

 He that falls in love with himself will have no rivals....

 —Benjamin Franklin

 It is a curious fact that of all the illusions that beset mankind, none
is quite so curious as that tendency to suppose that we are mentally and
morally superior to those who differ from us in opinion....	— Elbert
Hubbard

 It must be remembered that even though the ego is the individual’s
inaccurate concept of himself, it seems to be what he is....	— Fritz
Kunkel

 119  ♦?	 Ego/Vanity

 Praising an egotist is like pouring water on a drowning man....

 —Anonymous

 Egoism makes one see glory in petty achievements, happiness in trivial
acquisitions, joy in temporary authority over others. But, the Immortal
in him is awaiting discovery to confer bliss and liberation from birth
and death....

 —Sathya Sai Baba

 The self-centered nature is a very formidable enemy and it struggles
fiercely to retain its identity. It defends itself in a cunning manner
and should not be regarded lightly....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 There is nothing contrary to God in the whole world, nothing that
fights against him, but self-will....

 —Ralph Cudworth

 One of the ego’s favorite paths of resistance is to fill you with
doubt....

 —Ram Dass

 Healing only comes from that which leads the patient beyond himself and
beyond his entanglements with ego....

 —Carl Jung

 It is characteristic of the ego that it takes all that is unimportant
as important and all that is important as unimportant....	— Meher Baba

 The best way of seeing divine light is to put out your own little
candle....

 —English proverb

 The ego will always be able to find ways to keep the aspirant busy in
self- improvement, thus binding him to the fact that the self is still
there behind all improvements. For why should the ego kill itself?...
— Paid Brunton

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065    Ego/Vanity	*	120 

 	

 When the ego fights, God must go;when God fights, the ego must go....

 —Ramakrishnananda

 An egotist will always speak of himself,either in praise or censure;
but themodest man ever shuns making him-self the subject of his
conversation....

 —Jean La Bruyere

 God is nearer to you than anythingelse, yet because of the screen of
ego-tism you cannot see him....

 —Ramakrishna

 Many could forego heavy meals, a fullwardrobe, a fine house....it is
the egothey cannot forego....

 —Mohandas Gandhi

 The ego’s idea of staying in the presentis to continue whatever it is
doing at allcosts....	— Hugh Prather

 The fullest possible enjoyment is to befound by reducing your ego to
zero....

 — G. K. Chesterton

 When the ego-life dissolves and dies insilence, then one lives the life
supremeof pure awareness.... — Vachaka Kovia

 Truth cannot be achieved or possessedby the ego....	— Sunyata

 The ego is really our weakness, the wayour disbelief in ourselves shows
in life.When we give up fighting for it anddetermine to discipline it,
we are onour way toward being ourselves andmature individuals.... —
Alfred Ulher

 Ego is another synonym for limita-tion....	— Anonymous

 Ego is only an illusion caused by yourignorance. The ignorance is
removedby Self-enquiry....	— Papa Ramdas

 *	Emotions

 &

 Emotions

 T

 he emotions may be endless. Themore we express them, the more

 we may have to express....

 — E. M. Forster

 When you look at things emotionally, you will not see them clearly;
when you perceive things spiritually, you will understand....	— Peace
Pilgrim

 Many worthy causes have been lost because they were founded on emotion
instead of facts....

 —Whitney S. Seymour, Jr.

 The principal use of prudence, of self control, is that it teaches us
to be masters of our emotions....

 —Rene Descartes

 Emotions are more intense forms of feelings. The feeling of sadness may
build into grief, the feeling of irritation can become a fierce rage.
The distinguishing characteristic of emotion is that it dominates our
attention and cannot be ignored, while a feeling can remain in the
backround of awareness....	— John Welwood

 One of the most prevalent problems of modern times is emotional
immaturity. A surprising number of people act like little children
walking around in grown-up bodies....

 —Elinor MacDonald

 Most relate to the world by their emotions, which means they know only
the unreality of illusion—this world of emotion is the world of
duality, of love and hate, of joy and sorrow. All emotions are relative
to themselves, and last only as long as the supporting thought is
maintained....

 —A Spiritual Warrior

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Emotions 	♦?	 121	*	Emotions

   	

 Life is a tram of moods like a string of beads, and as we pass through
them they prove to be many colored lenses which paint the world in their
own hue....	— Ralph W. Emerson

 Since emotions are few and reasons are many, the behavior of a crowd
can be more easily predicted than the behavior of one person can....

 —Isaac Asimov

 Our emotions can take us to God or they can take us to hell....

 —Alan Cohen

 Thought is deeper than all speech, feeling deeper than all thought....

 —Christopher Crunch

 Good emotions are the best medicine....

 —John A. Schindler

 Emotions are like waves. Watch them come and go on the vast ocean of
existence....	— Hindu proverb

 We become our own enemy when we are thrown out of balance by anger,
hatred, grief or any other intense emotion. We are for the time being
obsessed by something alien....

 —Paramananda

 The belief that we’re responsible for others’ feelings makes
addicts out of us all. As long as we operate from this belief, our
ability to feel good is tied to the feelings of others....

 —Jordan & Margaret Paul

 In sports as in child rearing, marital arguments, or tantrums, the same
laws of learning apply: when an emotion is encouraged and the rules
permit it, it is perpetuated, not “drained.”...An emotion without
social rules of containment and expression is like an egg without a
shell: a gooey mess....

 —Carol Tavris

 When negative emotions are running high, one rarely makes the best
decisions....	— Anonymous

 In the march toward Truth, anger, selfishness, hatred, naturally give
way, for otherwise Truth would be impossible to attain. A man who is
swayed by negative emotions may have good enough intentions, may be
truthful in word, but he will never find the truth....

 —Mohandas Gandhi

 Emotions should be servants, not masters—or at least not tyrants....

 —Robert Benson

 We have lost confidence in reason because we have learned that man is
chiefly a creature of habit and emotion....	— John Dewey

 The most beautiful and profound emotion we can experience is the
sensation of the mystical. It is the sower of all true art and science.
He to whom this emotion is a stranger, who can no longer wonder and
stand rapt in awe, is as good as dead....	— Albert Einstein

 The taste for emotion may become a dangerous taste; we should be very
cautious how we attempt to squeeze out of human life more ecstasy and
paroxysm than it can well afford....

 —Sidney Smith

 We are all human beings. We have emotions. Men and women just express
them differently. That is the difference between us. Women want to talk
about their emotions, whereas men want to privately deal with them and
think them through....	— John Gray

 To be calm and well poised is to be the center of power. The weak are
those who have no control of their feelings and emotions....	— Leon
DeSeblo

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Emotions 	♦?	 122	* 	 Emotions

 Emotion, whether of ridicule, anger, or sorrow, whether used at a
puppet show, a funeral, or a battle, is your grandest of levelers. The
man who would always be superior should be always apathetic....

 —Edward Bulwer-Lytton

 Passion of any kind is a bad counselor....	— Paul Brunton

 Resentment is warmed-over anger. Anxiety is warmed-over fear. Self-pity
is nothing more than warmed-over grief. Warmed-over feelings happen when
there isn’t anything better to do....

 —Roberta Jean Bryant

 The strongest and most fantastic fact about negative emotions is that
people actually worship them....

 — P. D. Ouspensky

 Emotions....become more violent when expression is stilted....	—
Philo

 By starving emotions we become humorless, rigid and stereotyped; by
repressing them we become literal, reformatory and holier-than-thou;
encouraged, they perfume life; discouraged, they poison it....

 —Joseph Collins

 When a man is prey to his emotions, he is not his master....	— Baruch
Spinoza

 Hatred, envy, malice, jealousy and fear all have children. Any bad
thought breeds others, and each of these goes on and on, ever repeating
until our world is peopled with their offspring....

 —Ralph W, Trine

 If negative emotions produce negative chemical changes in the body,
wouldn’t the positive emotions produce positive chemical changes?...

 —Norman Cousins

 All emotions are pure which gather you and lift you up; that emotion is
impure which seizes only one side of your being and so distorts you....

 —Rainer M. Rilke

 Emotion which does not lead to and flow out in right action is not only
useless, but it weakens character, and becomes an excuse for neglect of
effort....	— Try on Edwards

 Emotions are the color of life; we would be drab creatures indeed
without them. But we must control these emotions or they will control
us....

 —John M. Wilson

 When you feel yourself in the grip of an emotion such as jealousy or
anger or sorrow, detach yourself from it. Take a step back. When you do
that, you can allow the emotion to run through you without causing
negative thoughts or actions....	— Gary Zuka v

 It is difficult for an appeal to the mind and the intellect to go far.
Most people unfortunately do not think. They feel and act according to
their feelings....

 —Jawaharlal Nehru

 Joy or bitterness is largely an outcome of the cultivation and guidance
of emotions. While this applies to all personal relationships, it is
especially weighty in marriage. Emotional attitudes may be either the
positive and constructive emotions of love and trust, or the negative
and potentially destructive emotions of fear and hatred....	— Leland
F. Wood

 The man who is involved in the surface phenomena of life is mainly a
creature caught up in the constantly changing emotions of life....	—
Papa Ramdas

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Enemy

 123

 - ‘ -

 Enemy

  Enemy 

 N

 o one will attack a person unlesshe appears to be an enemy....

 — Lao-tzu

 One of the most time consuming things is to have an enemy....	— E. B.
White

 You can discover what your enemy fears most by observing the means he
uses to frighten you....	— EricHoffer

 Man is wise....when he recognizes no greater enemy than himself....

 —Marguerite of Navarre

 It is hard to fight an enemy who has outposts in your head....

 —Sally Kempton

 The hand that holds the whip over our heads is most often our own....

 —Harvey Eagan

 It pays to know the enemy—not the least because at some time you may
have the opportunity to turn him into a friend....	— Margaret Thatcher

 Build your adversary a golden bridge over which to retreat....	— Sun
Tzu

 If we could read the secret history of our enemies we shall find in
each man’s sorrow and suffering enough to disarm all hostility....

 —Henry W. Longfellow

 Why should we love our enemies? Our enemy is our greatest friend. Those
who speak ill of me, exposing my weakness, do me the greatest good....

 —Vinobe Bhave

 No one is to be called an enemy; all are your benefactors, and no one
does you harm. You have no enemy except yourselves....	— Francis of
Assisi

 Our only enemies are those inside ourselves. They are our weaknesses
and vices, our lower passions and intellectual deformities. It is better
to fight them than other men....	— Paul Brunton

 The enemy has no definite name, though in a certain degree we all know
him. He who puts always the body before the spirit, the dead before the
living; who makes things only in order to sell them; who has forgotten
that there is such a thing as truth, and measures the world by
advertisement or by money....	— Gilbert Murray

 We live happily indeed, not hating those who hate us. Among men who
hate us we dwell free from hatred!...We live happily indeed, though we
call nothing our own! We shall live like the bright gods, feeding on
happiness! Victory breeds hatred, for the conquered is unhappy. He who
has given up victory and defeat, he, the contented, is happy....	—
Gautama Buddha

 The most discouraging, destroying and wretched enemies that can
exist....are negative thoughts....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 Your enemy is your greatest teacher....

 —Buddhist saying

 No man is your enemy; no man is your friend. All alike are your
teachers. Your enemy becomes a mystery that must be solved, even though
it takes ages, for man must be understood. Your friend becomes a part of
yourself, an extension of yourself, a riddle hard to read. Only one
thing is more difficult to know—your own heart....

 —Mabel Collins

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Enemy 	♦?	 124	* 	 Enemy

 Our enemies, are our outward consciences....	— William Shakespeare

 The desire-nature is your worst foe. It is very difficult to be armed
against it, since, firstly, it is an internal foe....

 —Ray Mitchell

 Never disregard what your enemies say. They may be severe, they may be
prejudiced, they may be determined to see only in one direction, but
still in that direction they see clearly. They do not speak all the
truth, but they generally speak the truth from one point of view; so far
as that goes, attend to them....	— Benjamin Haydon

 Better a thousand enemies outside the house than one inside....

 —Arabian proverb

 It is the enemy who can truly teach us to practice the virtues of
compassion and tolerance....	— Dalai Lama

 We should never make enemies, if for no other reason, because it is so
hard to behave toward them as we ought....

 —Ray Palmer

 A  wise man gets more use from his enemies than a fool from his
friends....

 —Baltasar Gracian

 Man’s chief enemy is his own unruly nature and the dark forces pent
up within him....	— Earnest Jones

 Luxury is more deadly than any foe....

 —Juvenal

 In the degree that we become enemies to the highest and best within us,
do we become enemies to all....

 —Ralph W. Trine

 There is no little enemy....

 —Benjamin Franklin

 It is much safer to reconcile an enemy than to conquer him; victory may
deprive him of his poison, but reconciliation, of his will.... — Owen
Felltham

 We have to learn to be our own best friend because we fall too easily
into the trap of being our own worst enemies....	— Roderick Thorp

 The fire you kindle to destroy your enemy often burns you first....

 —Anonymous

 My worst enemies are more valuable to me than my best friends....

 —Martin Luther

 In spite of all the awful evidence of history that nearly every man who
has ever lived allows himself to be split up into two enemy camps, to
wage a continuous war, mild or violent, on himself, it need not
happen....

 —James T. Mangan

 The fine and noble way to destroy a foe is not to kill him; with
kindness you may so change him that he shall cease to be so; then he’s
slain....

 —Charles Alleyn

 Beware of no man more than yourself; we carry our worst enemies within
us....	— Charles H. Spurgeon

 Heat not a furnace for your foe so hot that it will singe yourself....

 —William Shakespeare

 Men of sense often learn from their enemies....	— Aristophanes

 The greatest enemy of the modern world is boredom. Despite all
appearances, mankind is bored. We no longer know what to do with
ourselves. Hence....the disorderly turmoil of individuality pursuing
conflicts and egotistical aims....	— Teilhard de Chardin

                    shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Enemy 	♦?	 1

 Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate
you, and pray for them which spitefully use you and persecute you....
— Jesus

 Pay attention to your enemies, for they are the first to discover your
mistakes....

 —Antishenes

 None but myself ever did me any harm....	— Napoleon Bonaparte

 If you want enemies, excel others; if friends, let others excel you....

 —Charles C. Colton

 None but one can harm you, none but yourself are your greatest foe; he
that respects himself is safe from others: he wears a coat of mail that
none can pierce....	— Henry W. Longfellow

 Most people are their own worst enemies—unconsciously bent on self-
destruction....	— Hans Selye

 Conquer your mind and your senses. These are your real enemies....

 —Sivananda

 In order to have an enemy, one must be somebody.... — Ann S.
Swetchine

 I am persuaded that he who is capable of being a bitter enemy can never
possess the necessary virtues that constitute a true friend....

 —William Melmoth

 Flatterers are the worst kind of enemies....	— Tacitus

 Everyone is his own enemy....

 — St. Bernard

 Love your enemy not because he is your enemy but because beneath his
enmity is the eternal fact of brotherhood....	— Harold Marshall

 5	   *	Energy 

 To “love your enemies” means to forgive them, and to return good
for evil and by doing so you become their superior....	— Allan Kardec

 Those who hate you don’t win unless you hate them and then you
destroy yourself....	— Richard M. Nixon

 When the heart becomes pure, necessarily your enemy must become your
friend....	— Papa Ramdas

  6 

  Energy 

 O

 ne of the chief causes of fatigueis boredom....Our fatigue is often

 caused not by work, but by worry, frus-tration and resentment....We
rarely gettired when we are doing somethinginteresting and exciting....

 —Dale Carnegie

 It is astonishing....how much energy the body is capable of pouring out
and then replenishing. That is a magical act, because you never really
understand where all that energy comes from....

 —Robert Bly

 Energy is increased in solitude....If you are filled with the energy of
the Self, that energy flows out of you and nourishes everyone in your
vicinity. You don’t have to direct this power outwards....this energy
will flow of its own accord....	— Annamalia Swami

 You are tired because of your mental conflicts. You are antagonistic
toward too many things in your environment. Too much of the time you are
a house divided against itself, and this inner conflict is an exhausting
and sometimes frightening experience....

 —Elinor MacDonald

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Energy	*	126

 	  ffC

 When thoughts of concern for the past and of apprehension for the
future are dropped, a tremendous energy is freed for use in the present
moment....

 —A Spiritual Warrior

 Fatigue makes cowards of us all....

 —Vince Lombardi

 The senses are thieves who steal the energy of the Self.... —
Arunagirinatha

 Energy is wasted enormously when one gets angry. The whole nervous
system is shattered by an outburst of anger....

 —Sivananda

 When you have found inner peace, you are in constant contact with the
source of universal energy and cannot be tired....You have endless
energy....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 The greater part of the fatigue from which we suffer is of mental
origin....

 — J. A. Hadfield

 Vitality shows in not only the ability to persist, but in the ability
to start over....

 — F. Scott Fitzgerald

 Creative words generate energy; negative words drain out energy....

 —Robert Schuller

 As energy runs down, there’s a loss of order, which is the real
meaning of entropy....	 —Vilayat	I.	Khan

 The body is consuming energy when tense and restoring energy when it is
relaxed....	— John Lust

 Energy levels are determined by feelings: depression saps energy,
enthusiasm creates even more energy....

 —Anonymous

  Energy 

 You can sense energy to the degree your heart is open and loving....

 —Sanaya Roman

 One of the common causes of exhaustion in the nervous is inability to
make a decision quickly and then stick to it....

 — W. C. Alvarez

 Surrender refreshes and regenerates. Failure to surrender strains and
wearies....	— Piero Ferrucci

 There is no genius in life like the genius of energy.... — Donald G.
Mitchell

 Success is speedy for the energetic....

 —Pantanjali

 Enthusiasm is the emblem of energy. Enthusiasm tells you where you are
today, and predicts where you will be tomorrow. Without enthusiasm you
are simply chasing the rainbow promise that recedes as you pursue....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 Energy can do anything that can be done in the world....

 —Johann W. Goethe

 Human energy is low and the Divine Energy is without limit. You are
God. You are the Divine Energy. When you do the Divine work, your energy
grows....	— Sathya Sai Baba

 The longer I live, the more deeply am I convinced that that which makes
the difference between one man and another—between the weak and the
powerful, the great and the insignificant—is energy—invisible
determination....

 —Charles Buxton

 Love the moment, and the energy of that moment will spread out beyond
all boundaries....	— Corita Kent

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Energy	*	1

 The battle to keep up appearance unnecessarily, the mask—whatever
name you give creeping perfectionism —robs us of our energies....

 —Robin Worthington

 He alone has energy who cannot be deprived of it....	— John K.
Lavater

 Every time you don’t follow your inner guidance, you feel a loss of
energy, loss of power, a sense of spiritual deadness....	— Shakti
Gawain

 Energy is like a muscle; it grows stronger through being used....

 —Prabhavananda

 By anger one loses his energy....Anger transmuted into Love becomes an
energy so powerful as to move the whole world....	— Sivananda

 If anything is to be done, let a man do it, let him attack it
vigorously!...

 —Gautama Buddha

 In....silence we find a new energy and a real unity. God’s energy
becomes ours, allowing us to perform things well....

 —Mother Teresa

 Recharging ourselves with endless energy is accomplished simply by
consciously thinking of those qualities we know as joy, happiness,
enthusiasm, inspiration and ecstasy....

 —Cheryl Canfield

 Think of it how simple it is to know that the joy of achievement
recharges you with a balancing energy for the next achievement. If you
have no joy or happiness in your work, finding it to be a drudgery
instead, you will find fatigue from the constant devitalizing draining
of energy.... — Walter Russell

 To hate fatigues....

 —Jean Rostand

 7  ♦?	 Enlightenment

 Cosmic energy enters any man who will receive it. It flows into his
every action, transforming all he touches. But it cannot come in save as
it flows out....

 —Dave Seabury

 You have endless energy only insofar as you are working for the good of
the whole. As soon as you start working for your selfish little self,
it’s gone. That’s the secret of it....	— Peace Pilgrim

 The most exhausting thing in life is being insincere. This is why so
much social life is exhausting....

 —Anne Morrow Lindbergh

 Energy is Eternal Delight....

 —William Blake

 The universe is energy that responds to expectations....	— James
Redfield

 Once we open up to the flow of energy within our body, we also open up
to the flow of the energy in the universe....

 —Wilhelm Reich

 &

  Enlightenment 

 T

 hose who really seek the path toEnlightenment dictate terms to

 their mind. They then proceed withstrong determination....

 —Gautama Buddha

 There is no difference between an enlightened man and an ignorant one.
What makes the difference, is that the one realizes it, while the other
is kept in ignorance of it....	— Hui-Neng

 Enlightenment is characterized by the pure inner light. This creation
emerges from nothing, it dissolves in nothing, its nature is void, it
does not exist....

 —Yoga Vasistha

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Enlightenment 	♦?	 128	*
Enlightenment

 Enlightenment is “being,” and it grows; its end is serenity....	—
William Gibson

 Enlightenment must come little by little, otherwise it would
overwhelm....

 —Idries Shah

 The spirit enlightens whom it chooseth....

 —Hindu proverb

 There are many paths to enlightenment. Be sure to take the one with a
heart....	— Lao-tzu

 Enlightenment is the natural condition of life after you strip the
unnatural heavy and dark conditions away....

 —Ron Smothermon

 Enlightenment is simply waking up and recognizing the illusion of life
for what it is....	— Shantidasa

 To the enlightened man....whose consciousness embraces the universe, to
him the universe becomes his “body.”...

 —Lama Govinda

 You are destined for enlightenment. Cooperate with your destiny,
don’t go against it, don’t thwart it. Allow it to fulfill itself....
— Nisargadatta

 Everyone will become enlightened. Some before others. But everyone
will. There is no way it won’t happen. But all need inspiration in
order to find their way....	— Iris Belhayes

 Inner peace is also enlightenment, a state where your life is governed
by the God-centered nature, as opposed to the selfcentered nature....
— Peace Pilgrim

 If you are enlightened, you are not free, as some people say, but you
are freedom itself. Not like a bird in the sky, but like the sky
itself....

 —Walter A. Keers

 Since I received enlightenment in the infinite wonders of truth I have
always been cheerful and laughing....

 —Hung Chou

 If a man is free from sin, his mind and heart must be opened to the
influence of enlightenment....	— The Talmud

 God realization does not begin in a cave high atop the Himalayas. It
begins in the pots and pans of the kitchen. Treat all of your tasks,
however small, as opportunities to see God and serve Him....	—
Sivananda

 Everything that I have written seems to me like straw, in comparison
with the things that I have seen and that have been revealed to me....

 -—Thomas Aquinas

 Words are a distraction to enlightenment. Getting rid of conceptual
thinking means enlightenment....

 —Ramesh Balsekar

 Enlightenment is not an attainment; it is a realization. When you wake
up, everything changes and nothing changes. If a blind man realizes that
he can see, has the world changed?...

 —Dan Millman

 Enlightenment is the highest good. Once you have it, nobody can take it
away from you....	— Siddharameshwar

 Before enlightenment, I chopped wood and carried water; after
enlightenment, I chopped wood and carried water....

 —Zen saying

 You may have expected that enlightenment would come ZAP! instantaneous
and permanent. This is unlikely. After the first “ah ha” experience,
it can be thought of as the thinning of a layer of clouds....	— Ram
Dass

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Enlightenment	*	129 	♦?

  —

 The Wisdom of Enlightenment is inherent in every one of us. It is
because of the delusion under which our mind works that we fail to
realize it ourselves, and that we have to seek the advice and the
guidance of enlightened ones....	 —Hui-Neng

 The attainment of enlightenment from ego’s point of view is extreme
death....

 —Chogyam Tningpa

 In proportion as men become enlightened in regard to spiritual things,
they attach less value to material things....

 —Allan Kardec

 Enlightenment cannot be attained, nor forced. It can only happen....It
can appear only when it is given a vacant space to appear in....

 —Nisargadatta

 A  person who says, “I’m enlightened” probably isn’t....	—
RarnDass

 The reason why so few people find enlightenment is because they have
free will and punish themselves by making wrong choices. Constantly,
enlightenment is being offered to them, but they refuse to accept it.
Therefore they are being taught problems that are set before them, since
they refuse to make choices voluntarily....	— Peace Pilgrim

 &

  Enthusiasm 

 E

 nthusiasm is the greatest asset inthe world. It is nothing more or

 less than faith in action....

 —Henry Chester

 Enthusiasm makes the difference!...

 —Charles E. Jones

 Enthusiasm

 Enthusiasm is not a thing which some possess and others lack. All
persons have it potentially, but only a few are able to express it....

 —William W. Atkinson

 Enthusiasm changes the quality of the job because it changes people....

 —Norman V. Peale

 Look at everything as though you were seeing it for the first or last
time. Then your time on earth will be filled with glory....	— Betty
Smith

 Without enthusiasm, every task is difficult....	— Anonymous

 If we find nothing of interest where we are, we are likely to find
little of lasting interest where we wish to go....

 —Edwin W. Teale

 Enthusiasm is the temper of the mind in which the imagination has got
the better of judgement....

 —William Warburton

 When you are inspired by some great purpose, some extraordinary
project, all your thoughts break their bounds. Your mind transcends
limitations, your consciousness expands in every direction, and you will
find yourself in a new, great and wonderful world....

 —Patanjali

 When a man’s willing and eager, God joins in....	—Aeschylus

 Enthusiasm is that secret and harmonious spirit which hovers over the
production of genius....	—Isaac  D’Israeli

 When you go through a day, utterly devoid of enthusiasm, you are like a
sluggish little stream of muddy water, flowing its easiest, sluggish,
downhill course....	— Fred Van Amburgh

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Enthusiasm

 ♦?  130 *

 Enthusiasm

 ■?  ifp’

 Enthusiasm reaches out with joy, for there is nothing depressing about
it; it reaches out in faith, for there is no fear in it; it reaches out
with acceptance, for there is no doubt in it; it reaches out as a child
for there is no uncertainty about it....	— Ernest Holmes

 Enthusiasm is the great tool of persuasion....You can do nothing
effectively without enthusiasm....

 —Napoleon Hill

 Your enthusiasm is not dead; it merely hides below your cynical
practicality....

 —David Seabury

 Enthusiasm is the genius of sincerity; and truth accomplishes no
victories without it....

 —Edward Bidwer-Lytton

 Every great and commanding movement in the annals of the world is a
triumph of enthusiasm....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 Nothing great or new can be done without enthusiasm. Enthusiasm is the
flywheel which carries your saw through the knots in the log....

 —Harvey Cushing

 Enthusiasm gives life to what is invisible....	— Madame de Stael

 Great designs are not accomplished without enthusiasm of some sort. It
is the inspiration of everything great....

 —Christian Bovee

 Enthusiasm is the father of excellence....	— Bruce A. Johnson

 We act as though comfort and luxury were the chief requirements of
life, when all we need to make us happy is something to be enthusiastic
about....

 —Charles Kingsley

 If you can give your son or daughter only one gift, let it be
enthusiasm....

 —Bruce Barton

 Be enthusiastic till it thrills you. Display it, radiate it, till it
infects all those around you....	— Homi Kharas

 All noble enthusiasms pass through a feverish stage, and grow wiser and
more serene.... — William E. Channing

 Every man loves what he is good at....

 —Thomas Shadwell

 The worst bankrupt is the person who has lost enthusiasm. Let one lose
everything but enthusiasm and that person will again come through to
success....

 — H. W. Arnold

 Enthusiasm always exaggerates the importance of important things and
overlooks the deficiencies....

 —Hugh S. Tigner

 Opposition always inflames the enthusiast, never converts him....

 —Johann von Schiller

 A  man without judgement is like a car without brakes, but a man
without enthusiasm is like a car without a motor....	— Judith Lane

 Enthusiasm, like measles, mumps and the common cold, is highly
contagious....	— Emory Ward

 Zeal without knowledge is fire without light....	— Thomas Fuller

 Enthusiasm is the thing which makes the world go round. Without its
driving power, nothing worth doing has ever been done. Love, friendship,
religion, altruism, devotion to career or hobby, —all these, and most
of the other good things of life, are forms of enthusiasm....	— Robert
H. Schauffler

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Enthusiasm	*	1

 No person who is enthusiastic about his work has anything to fear from
life. All the opportunities in the world are waiting to be grasped by
people who are in love with what they’re doing....

 —Sam Goldwyn

 Earnestness is enthusiasm tempered by reason....	— Bla ise Pascal

 Apathy can only be overcome by enthusiasm, and enthusiasm can only be
aroused by two things: first, an ideal which takes the imagination by
storm; and second, a definite intelligible plan for carrying the ideal
into practice....

 —Arnold Toynbee

 None are so old as those who have outlived enthusiasm....

 —Henry D. Thoreau

 There can be no success without enthusiasm. The secret of a full life
is lots of enthusiasm, the kind that keeps you fighting and winning over
all obstacles —and enjoying every minute of it....

 —Alfred Krebs

 Enthusiasm is one of life’s greatest qualities, but it must be
practiced to become a dominant factor in one’s life....There is real
magic in enthusiasm. It spells the difference between mediocrity and
accomplishment....

 —Norman V. Peale

 Enthusiasts soon understand each other....	— Washington Irving

 The world belongs to the enthusiast who keeps cool....	— William
McFee

 Enthusiasm is one thing that can’t be feigned....	— Jerome S. Gross

 Fires can't be made with dead embers, nor can enthusiasm be stirred by
spiritless men....	— James Baldwin

 1  ♦?	 Envy/Jealousy

 The Greeks have given us one of themost beautiful words of our
language,the word “enthusiasm”—a god within.The grandeur of the
acts of men is mea-sured by the inspiration from whichthey spring. Happy
is he who bears aGod within....	— Louis Pasteur

 Enthusiasm is more catching than themeasles. So are indifference and
lack ofenthusiasm....	— Les Giblin

 The successful reformers are those whoare seeking not so much to
“make peo-ple good” as to share an enthusiasm....

 —Charles A. Bennett

 The sense of this word among theGreeks affords the noblest definition
ofit; enthusiasm signifies “God in us.”...

 —Madame de Stael

 The prudent man may direct a state,but it is the enthusiast who
regener-ates it....Nothing is so contagious asenthusiasm.... — Edward
Bulwer-Lytton

 &

  Envy /Jealousy 

 hen envy consumes us, we areunable to love, unable to

 appreciate others. Envy opens thefloodgates to our darkest emotions
andour most mean-spirited inclinations....

 —Melvyn Kinder

 Envy always implies conscious inferiority wherever it resides....	—
Pliny

 All envy is proportionate to desire; we are uneasy at the attainments
of another....	— Samuel Johnson

 Jealousy, that dragon that slays love under the pretense of keeping it
alive....

 —Havelock Ellis

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Envy/Jealousy	*	1

 Though jealousy be produced by love, as ashes are by fire, yet jealousy
extinguishes love as ashes smother the flame....	— Marguerite of
Navarre

 Immature people are jealous because they do not know they are just as
important as anyone else, with just as much potential, and with a job in
the divine plan....	— Peace Pilgrim

 Envy is the desire to possess something you don’t have; jealousy is
the fear of losing something you don’t possess....

 —Anonymous

 Nothing is more capable of troubling our reason and consuming our
health, than secret notions of jealousy in solitude....	— AphraBehir

 To jealousy, nothing is more frightful than laughter....	— Francoise
Sagan

 Jealousy is indeed a poor medium to secure love, but it is a secure
medium to destroy one’s self-respect....

 —Emma Goldman

 Envy’s a coal coming hissing hot from hell....	— Philip J. Bailey

 When men are full of envy they disparage everything, whether it be good
or bad....	— Tacitus

 Jealousy lives upon doubts. It becomes madness or ceases entirely as
soon as we pass from doubt to certainty....

 —Francois La Rochefoucauld

 There is a time in every man’s education when he arrives at the
conviction that envy is ignorance....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 Envy shooteth at others, but hitteth and woundeth herself....

 —Gabriel Harvey

 2 *	Envy/Jealousy

 Jealousy is based on a feeling of inadequacy and a lack of
self-worth....The best way to handle the jealousy is to concentrate on
loving yourself....

 —Louise L. Hay

 Envy slays itself by its own arrows....

 —Anonymous

 Jealousy is like fire; it eats up goodness, just as fire consumes
fuel....

 —Sivananda

 Jealousy is more self-love than love....

 —Francois La Rochefoucauld

 Never try to please an envious person....  —Luc de Clapiers
Vauvenargues

 A man that has no virtue in himself ever envies virtue in others; for
men’s minds will either feed upon their own good, or upon other’s
evil....

 —Francis Bacon

 It is not love that is blind but jealousy....

 —Lawrence Durrell

 When envy is in your heart, your neighbor’s hens will look like
turkeys, and your neighbor’s cabin like a castle. Envy enlarges
everything....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 Our knowledge of what the richer than ourselves possess, and the poor
do not, has never been more widespread. Therefore, envy, which is
wanting what others have, and jealousy, which is not wanting others to
have what one has, have never been more widespread....

 —John Fowles

 Jealousy is the injured lover’s hell....

 —John Milton

 Envy has a thousand eyes, but none with correct vision....

 —Issachar Hurwitz

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Envy/Jealousy	*	133

 Jealousy sees things always with magnifying glasses which make little
things large; of dwarfs, giants, of suspicions, truths....	— Miguel de
Cervantes

 If we but knew how little some enjoy of the great things that they
possess, there would not be much envy in the world....	— Edward Young

 If you believe that God pervades everything that He has created, you
must believe that you cannot enjoy anything that is not given by Him,
and seeing that He is the Creator of his numberless children, it follows
that you cannot covet anybody’s possessions....

 —Mohandas K. Gandhi

 Jealousy is the sister of love, as the devil is the brother of
angels....

 —Stanislas Bouttlers

 It would be an error to try to build the Kingdom of Heaven upon envy.
For nothing that is founded on envy can thrive; it must have another
root....

 —Paracelsus

 Jealousy is the fear or apprehension of superiority; envy, our
uneasiness under it....	— William Shenstone

 Envy has no other quality but that of detracting from virtue....	—
Livy

 Envy is simply being angry at being left out of the happiness of
others....

 — Hans-Ulrick Rieker

 Jealousy is a manifestation of an inferiority complex; it is born of
self-love, begotten by weakness, and it lives on doubt....	— Fred Van
Amburgh

 No man can ever know his own garden who is always looking over the
wall....

 —Fulton J. Sheen

  Evil 

 Envy ought to have no place allowed it in the heart of man; for the
goods of this present world are so vile and low that they are beneath
it; and those of the future world are so vast and exalted that they are
above it....

 —Charles C. Colton

 Envy is its own torturer....

 —Danish proverb

 Envy is the enemy of happiness....

 —John H. Crowe

 Envy requires keeping your eyes off yourself and focused on others....

 —Melvyn Kinder

 Base envy withers at another’s joy, and hates the excellence it
cannot reach....

 —James Thomson

 As a moth gnaws a garment, so does envy consume a man....

 —John Chrysostom

 Jealousy is another canker that consumes man. It is nothing but petty-
mindedness....	— Sivananda

  Evil 

 G

 ood is great and real; hence, itsopposite, evil, must be small and

 unreal....	— Mary Baker Eddy

 Imaginary evils are incurable....

 —Marie von Ebner Eschenbach

 Evil does exist, but we do not have to accept it as an inevitable fact
of life....

 —Paramananda

 One can only think of spoiling others after one has spoiled oneself....

 —Ramana Maharshi

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Evil

 Evil is merely a mask—a dysfunction....

 —Wendy Kaminer

 When God is everywhere, how can there be a place for evil? There are
changes and they sometimes appear evil. Everything is at work. Only God
knows what He is about....

 —Yoga Swami

 We need to realize in all its implications the fact that the ego itself
is the source of all the evil that besets life. But to most inquirers
the ego is dear as life itself, because they think it is themselves, and
do not want to lose it. They would rather suffer all the ills of life
than be happy without it....

 —Lakshmana Sarma

 In the eyes of God there is no evil. We suffer because of our
ego....What, after all, is right and wrong? That which takes you towards
God is right and that which takes you away from God is wrong. There is
no question of right and wrong for one who has realized God....	— Papa
Ramdas

 Nothing which is naturally inevitable can possibly be evil. Winter,
night, death are not evils. They are the natural transitions from one
day to another day, from autumn to spring, from one life to another
life....	— Eliphas Levi

 Evil and negative conditions cannot be overcome by fighting them, or
endeavoring to alter them, anymore than one can alter one’s shadow by
trying to cut it into a different shape with a pair of shears....	—
Henry T. Hamblin

 Whenever evil befalls us, we ought to ask ourselves, after the first
suffering, how we can turn it into good. So shall we take occasion, from
one bitter root, to raise perhaps many flowers....

 —Leigh Hunt

 134  ♦?	 Evil

 	

 Much in man’s world looks evil andugly to us because we are
seeingeverything in an unfinished state ofevolution....	— Elinor
MacDonald

 There is no explanation for evil. It mustbe looked upon as a necessary
part ofthe order of the universe; to ignore it ischildish, to bewail it
senseless....

 —Somerset Maugham

 If one is plotting evil he always usespleasant words. When a hunter
sees thegame he sings a sweet song to lure it....

 —Tibetan saying

 The evil you know is better than theevil you don’t know....

 —Russian proverb

 He who passively accepts evil is asmuch involved in it as he who helps
toperpetuate it....	— Martin L. King, Jr.

 Sin....has been made not only ugly butpasse. People are no longer
sinful, theyare only immature or underprivilegedor frightened or, more
particularly,sick....	— Phyllis McGinley

 Do not resist the wicked person: Ifsomeone strikes you on one cheek,
turnthe other....	— Jesus

 Sin and evil are nothing less than ourinability to love....

 —Thomas M. MacDonald

 Really good and evil are one and thesame, and are in our mind. When
themind is tranquil neither good nor evilaffects it....We must find we
are beyondgood and evil....	— Vivekananda

 Only by contrast with evil could I havelearned to feel the beauty of
truth andlove and goodness....	— Helen Keller

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Evil....can never pass away, for
there must always be an opposite to good. It has no place in heaven, so
of necessity it haunts the mortal nature of this earthly sphere.
Therefore, we ought to escape from earth to heaven as quickly as we can;
and the way to escape is to become like God, as far as possible; and the
way to become like Him is to become holy, good and wise....

 —Plato

 Evil is a screen which hides the truth....

 —Hindu saying

 The belief in a supernatural power of evil is not necessary; men alone
are quite capable of every wickedness....

 —Joseph Conrad

 If evil existed, this would mean God created it. Such a thing is
impossible. If there were two equal powers, they would neutralize each
other. What we see as evil is not ultimately real but is simply a result
of the creative power of thought....	— Shirley Briggs

 Negativity has within it the seeds of its own destruction....	—
Emmanuel

 There is no evil that does not offer inducements. Avarice promises
money; luxury, a varied assortment of pleasure; ambition, a purple robe
and applause. Vices tempt you by the rewards which they offer....	—
Seneca

 For every thousand hacking at the leaves of evil, there is one striking
at the root....	— Henry D. Thoreau

 There is only one good—knowledge, and one evil—ignorance....	—
Socrates

 In our obsession with original sin, we have forgotten original
innocence....

 —Pope Innocent

 Evil has an appetite for falsity, and eagerly seizes it as truth....

 —Emanuel Swedenborg

 For as long as the root of wickedness is hidden, it is strong, but when
it is recognized it is dissolved....

 —Gospel of Phillip

 Do not fight evil directly—bypass it!...

 —The Talmud

 There is a great difference between resisting the negative force and
renouncing it. When you resist this dark force, or what man calls evil,
you give the subject attention and growth. When you renounce evil you
take your attention from it and give your attention to what you want....

 —Darwin Gross

 The coward only threatens when he is safe....	— Johann W. Goethe

 The greatest cure for disharmony is the knowledge that it is not from
God, and that God never did create it....

 —Baird Spalding

 Distrust all men in whom the impulse to punish is powerful....

 —Friedrich W. Nietzsche

 To see and listen to the wicked is already the beginning of
wickedness....

 —Confucius

 Often our greatest crimes are those we don’t realize....	 —Eliphas
Levi

 In the huge mass of evil as it rolls and swells, there is ever some
good working toward deliverance and triumph....

 —Thomas Carlyle

 We believe at once in evil; we only believe in good upon reflection. Is
not this sad?...	— Madam Deluzy

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Remember that the sin and shame of
the world are your sin and shame for you are part of it. The soiled
garment you shrink from touching may have been yours yesterday, may be
yours tomorrow. Therefore, be wary lest too soon you fancy yourself
something apart from the masses....

 —Mabel Collins

 Evil is evil because it is unnatural....

 —Frederick W. Robertson

 Forces of evil have power only on their own plane: they can affect us
only through our own evil, or thought and receptiveness to evil....

 —Henry T. Hamblin

 The use of evil will create more evil....

 —Fridtjof Nansen

 Evil is not a reality, but it is an obsession. It has come with the
ego. It will disappear along with the ego....

 —Papa Ramdas

 The only evil there is, is the belief in a self-hood or a condition
separate and apart from God....	— Joel Goldsmith

 Evil can never survive, though for a time it may seem to triumph. It is
only a question of our endurance and patience....	— Paramananda

 In the world there is nothing absolutely bad. Know, moreover, evil is
only relative....	— The Masnavi I Ma’Naui

 If an evil person falls in a well, what should be done? Pull him out.
Do not think that the bad will always be bad; lead them to the right
road....

 —Nityananda

 The first way to avoid an evil, is to know it, and to know the cause
and occasion of it.... — Benjamin Whichcote

 Fighting any adverse condition only increases its power over us....

 —Ernest Holmes

 Evil is antagonism with the entire creation....	— Johann H. Zschokke

 In their immaturity, the people of the world have been attempting to
overcome evil with more evil and they have multiplied the evil. Evil can
only be overcome by good....	— Peace Pilgrim

 There is but one way to worship God: it is to be devoid of evil....It
is the height of evil not to know God....	— Hermes

 Good has but one enemy, the evil; but the evil has two enemies, the
good and itself....	— Johannes von Muller

 It matters not what our evils are....hardness of heart, covetousness,
wrath, pride and ambition. Our remedy is always one and the same, always
at hand, always certain and infallible....

 —William Law

 As sure as God is good, so surely there is no such thing as necessary
evil....

 —Robert Southle

 The exit of evil works the entrance of virtue....	■?— Philo

 We cannot do evil to others without doing it to ourselves....

 —Joseph Desmahis

 There is nothing evil save that which perverts the mind and shackles
the conscience....	— St. Ambrose

 All punishment in itself is evil....

 —Jeremy Bentham

 Those who do evil in the open light of day—men will punish them.
Those who do evil in secret—God will punish them....	— Kwang Tze

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   	 *5SP*

 Much that we call evil is really good indisguise; and we should not
quarrelrashly with adversaries not yet under-stood, nor overlook the
mercies oftenbound up in them....

 —Thomas Browne All evils are negations....

 —Maimonides

 Whatever good you have is all fromGod. Whatever evil, all is from
your-self....	— Koran

 No man chooses evil because it is evil;he only mistakes it for
happiness, thegood he seeks....

 —Mary Wollstonecraft

 Evil consists in destroying life, doing itinjury, hindering its
development....

 —Albert Schweitzer

 This would be the most extreme of ills—not to be conscious of the
presence ofevil. For this is the condition of peoplewho no longer want
to rise....

 —Synesius

 The most evil is done by people whonever make up their minds to be
eithergood or evil....	— Hannah Arendt

 Evil is not an actual substance, butabsence of good; just as darkness
isnothing but absence of light....

 —Abba Evagrins

 If we rightly estimate what we call goodand evil, we shall find it lies
in compar-ison....	— John Locke

 Even in evil, that dark cloud that hangsover creation, we discern rays
of lightand hope, and gradually come to see, insuffering and
temptations, proofs andinstruments of the sublimest purposesof wisdom
and love....

 —William E. Channing

 The greatest penalty of evil-doing is to grow into the likeness of bad
men....

 —Plato

 The basic formula for all sin is: frustrated or neglected love....

 —Franz Werfel

 Every evil thought or deed or hatred, or any other thought or reaction
if it is controlled, will be laid in our favor. It is not that we lose
by thus restraining ourselves; we are gaining infinitely more than we
suspect....

 —Vivekananda

 The man who has no wound on his hand may touch poison with his hand,
for poison cannot affect a man with no open wound. Neither is there evil
for the man free of evil....

 —Buddhist saying

 It is not sufficient to deny or ignore evil; it must be understood. It
is not enough to pray to God to remove the evil; you must find out why
it is there, and what lesson it has for you. It is of no avail to fret
and fume and chafe at the chains that bind you; you must know how and
why you are bound....

 —James Allen

 Non-cooperation with evil is as much a duty as cooperation with
good....

 —Mohandas Gandhi

 The root of evil is attachment which has sprung from the seed called
desire —the primal cause of ignorance....

 —Papa Ramdas

 The lives of the best of us are spent in choosing evils....	— Junius

 Belief in a cruel God makes a cruel man....	— Thomas Paine

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Evil	*	1

 Without evil the All would be incomplete. For most or even all forms of
evil serve the Universe....Vice itself has many useful sides....	
-—Plotinus

 Idleness leads first to boredom, then to mischief, and eventually to
evil....

 —Anonymous

 It is a law of our humanity that man must know good through evil. No
great principle ever triumphed but through much evil. No man ever
progressed to greatness and goodness but through mistakes....	
—Frederick W. Robertson

 111 deeds are doubled with an evil word....	 —William Shakespeare

 In every evil thought there is a spark of divinity, which has sunk to a
very low degree, and begs to be elevated....

 —Joseph Opatoshu

 Most of the evil that man has inflicted upon man has come through
people feeling quite certain about something which, in fact, was
false....

 —Lord Russell

 The only intrinsic evil is lack of love....

 —John Robinson

 We need not reach out to tear down that which is evil because nothing
which is contrary to God’s laws can endure. All not-good things in the
world are transient, containing within themselves the seeds of their own
destruction....	 —Peace Pilgrim

 Evil is good perverted....

 —Henry  IV.  Longfellow

 Evil is like poison ivy; the more you scratch, the more it itches, and
the more it spreads....	— A. Nicolas

 8 *	Example

 People who seek evil in others, find it.This applies to nations as well
as indi-viduals....	 —Jawaharlal Nehru

 Evil is not being, it is a hole in being, alack. That is why there can
be noabsolute evil....	 —Yves M. Congar

 Evil is that which makes for separate-ness....	 —Aldous Huxley

 Evil is neither person, place, nor being,but simply a belief, an
illusion of mate-rial sense....	 —Mary Baker Eddy

 Evil is that which God does not will....

 —Emil Brunner

 Evil has no substance of its own, but isonly the defect, excess,
perversion, orcorruption of that which has sub-stance....	 —John H.
Newman

 The first lesson of history is that evil isgood....	 —Ralph  IV. 
Emerson

 If you believe that evil is at work, thatis, malicious forces
uncontrolled byGod, then you are sure to act wronglyby forcing the issue
instead of waitingfor Divine Wisdom to open a betterway....	 —Henry T.
Hamblin

 &

  Example 

 e must be the change we wishto see in the world....

 —Mohandas Gandhi

 Few things are harder to put up with than the annoyance of a good
example....	 —Mark Twain

 To set a lofty example is the richest bequest a man can leave
behind....

 —Samuel Smiles

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Example	* 1

 A rogue is not an eternal rogue. A prostitute is not an eternal
prostitute. Put these people in the company of saints. They will be
newly molded and will be transformed into saints with virtuous
qualities....	— Sivananda

 If you see anybody fallen by the wayside and lying in the ditch, it
isn’t much good climbing into the ditch and lying by his side.... —
H. R. L. Sheppard

 Be a pattern to others, and all will go well: for as a whole city is
affected by the promiscuous passions of great men, so it is likewise
reformed by their moderation....	— Cicero

 Let us preach without preaching, not by words but by example, by the
catching force, the sympathetic influence of what we do....	— John H.
Newman

 People never improve unless they look to some standard or example
higher and better than themselves....

 —Tryon Edwards

 You think absolute consistency is possible; prove it by example.
Don’t preach what you do not practice....

 —Nisargadatta

 Nothing is so infectious as example....

 —Charles Kingsley

 Live with wolves and you will soon learn to howl....	— Spanish
proverb

 One watch set right will do to set many by; one that goes wrong may be
the means of misleading a whole neighborhood; and the same may be said
of example....	— Leivis W. Dilyn

 A  good example is always the best sermon, the most effective
teacher....

 —Anonymous

 9 *	Example

 C  	

 Precept is instruction written in the sand. The tide flows over it, and
the record is gone. Example is graven on the rock, and the lesson is not
soon lost....	— William E. Channing

 We can only change others through example....	— Peace Pilgrim

 My advice is to consult the lives of other men, as one would a looking
glass, and from thence fetch examples for imitation....	— Terence

 Children have never been very good at listening to their elders, but
they have never failed to imitate them....

 —James Baldwin

 None preach better than the ant, and she says nothing....

 —Benjamin Franklin

 From the loving example of one family, a whole state may become loving;
from the ambition and perseverance of one man, the whole state may be
thrown into a rebellion. Such is the nature of influence....	—
Confucius

 No reproof or denunciation is so perfect as the silent influence of a
good example....	— Maturin Ballou

 One thorn of experience is worth a whole wilderness of warning....

 —James Russell Lowell

 Old people like to give good advice, as solace for no longer being able
to provide bad examples....

 —Francois La Rochefoucauld

 We reform others unconsciously acting uprightly....	— Hebrew proverb

 Example is the school of mankind, and they will learn at no other....

 —Edmund Burke

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Example	*	1

 	 f;

 People seldom improve when they have no model but themselves to copy
after....	— Oliver Goldsmith

 Men trust rather their eyes than their ears. The effect of precepts is,
therefore, slow and tedious, while that of examples is summary and
effectual....

 —Seneca

 There is transcendent power in example. We reform others
subconsciously, when we walk uprightly....

 —Ann S. Swetchine

 We are all of us more or less echoes, repeating involuntarily the
virtues, the defects, the movements, and the characters of those among
whom we live....

 —Jean Joubert

 I have ever deemed it more honorable and more profitable, too, to set a
good example than to follow a bad one....

 —Thomas Jefferson

 Do not take the example of another as an excuse for your wrongdoing....

 —Eknath Easwaran

 I am satisfied that we are less convinced by what we hear than by what

 we see....	— Herodotus

 Example is a lesson that all men can read....	— Gilbert West

 The only rational way of education is to be an example—if you can’t
help it, a warning example....

 —Albert Einstein

 One example is more valuable....than twenty precepts written in
books....

 —Roger Ascham

 For each man to be a standard unto himself is excellent for the good,
but for the bad it is the worst of all things....

 —Homer

 0 *	Example

 In no way can we so effectively hasten the dawning of the inner
consciousness of another, as by showing forth the divinity within
ourselves simply by the way we live. By example and not by precept. By
living not by preaching. By doing not by professing....

 —Ralph W. Trine

 It is no use walking anywhere to preach unless our walking is our
preaching....

 —Francis of Assisi

 Make small commitments and keep them. Be a light, not a judge. Be a
model, not a critic. Be part of the solution, not part of the
problem....

 —Stephen R. Covey

 There is no real excellence in all this world which cannot be separated
from right living....	— David S. Jordan

 He who lives well is the best preacher....

 —Miguel de Cervantes

 Even when walking in a party of three 1 can always be certain of
learning from those I am with. There will be good qualities that I can
select for imitation and bad ones that will teach me what requires
correction in myself....

 —Confucius

 A  frightened captain makes a frightened crew....	— Lister Sinclair

 Example is not the main thing in influencing others. It is the only
thing....

 —Albert Schweitzer

 No one can become another, even by following exactly what another is
doing....	— Muni Swamy

 Example is always better than precept. Live an ideal life and by doing
so, change the heart of others....

 —Papa Rarndas

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Failure/Mistake	*	141	*
Failure/Mistake

 	 tv 	

 *

  Failure /Mistake 

 T

 here are occasions when it isundoubtedly better to incur loss

 than to make gain....	— Plautus

 When we begin to take our failuresnonseriously, it means we are
ceasingto be afraid of them. It is of immenseimportance to learn to
laugh at our-selves....	— Katherine Mansfield

 It is in our faults and failings, not inour virtues, that we touch one
another andfind sympathy....	— Jerome K. Jerome

 Failure will never overtake you if yourdetermination to succeed is
strongenough....	— Og Mandino

 Thinking like a winner means notalways having to defeat someone else.It
means being able to grow from a situ-ation in which you fail to meet
yourgoal....	— Wayne Dyer

 Defeat does not finish a man—quitdoes. A man is not finished when he
isdefeated. He’s finished when he quits....

 —Richard M. Nixon

 The basic causes of failure in life are:Lack of objectives, lack of
steadfastnessof purpose or a resolute plan to fulfillthe objectives....
— A. 	V.  Deshmane

 The only failure a man ought to fear isfailure to cleaving to the
purpose hesees to be best....	— George Eliot

 A series of failures may culminate inthe best possible result....

 —Gisela Richter

 Failure is impossible....

 —Susan B. Anthony

 To understand how something works, it helps to know how it can fail....

 —Marvin Minsky

 Defeat is a school in which truth always grows strong.... — Henry W.
Beecher

 Losers visualize the penalties of failure. Winners visualize the
rewards of success....	— Rob Gilbert

 Picture yourself vividly as defeated and that alone will make victory
impossible....	— Harry E. Fosdick

 You only fail if you quit trying....

 —Edgar Cayce

 There are thousands to tell you it cannot be done, there are thousands
to prophesy failure. There are thousands to point out to you, one by
one, the dangers that await to assail you. But just buckle in with a bit
of a grin, just take off your coat and go to it; Just start to sing as
you tackle the thing that “cannot be done,” and you’ll do it....

 —Edgar Guest

 Do not brood over failures, defects and mistakes. They will weaken your
“will.”...Just reflect for a while why you have failed in the
attempt and try to be careful in the second attempt....

 —Sivananda

 There is no failure except in no longer trying. There is no defeat save
your own inherent weakness of purpose....

 —Richard Pape

 Even after the greatest defeats, the depressing thought of being a
failure is best combated by taking stock of all your past
achievements....

 —Hans Selye

 If you can learn to learn from failure, you’ll go pretty much where
you want to go....	— Arthur Gordon

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Failure/Mistake

 142

 ~  ‘Sp’  -

 Failure/Mistake

 Any action that is conceived in the ego and entered into for
egotistical purposes, if not doomed to failure from the onset, can
result in only mediocre success....	 —U.	S.	Anderson

 Being defeated is often a temporary condition. Giving up is what makes
it permanent...	— Marilyn vos Savant

 Failure is often God’s own tool for carving some of the finest
outlines in the character of his children....

 —Thomas Hodgkin

 He who hopes to avoid all failure and misfortune is trying to live in a
fairyland; the wise man realistically accepts failures as a part of life
and builds a philosophy to meet them and make the best of them....	
—Wilferd A. Peterson

 What is defeat? Nothing but education; nothing but the first step to
something better....	— Wendell Phillips

 Failure is instructive. The person who really thinks, learns quite as
much from his failures as from his successes....

 —John Dewey

 A failure is a man who has blundered and then is not able to cash in on
the experience....	— Elbert Hubbard

 Failures are divided into two classes— those who thought and never
did, and those who did and never thought....

 —John C. Salak

 It is only when everything, even love, fails, that with a flash, man
finds out how vain, how dream-like is this world....	— Vivekananda

 Most people fail not because they lack ability, intelligence, or
opportunity, but they fail because they don’t give it all they’ve
got....	— Norman V. Peale

 Our highest hopes are often destroyed to prepare us for better things.
The failure of the caterpillar is the birth of the butterfly; the
passing of the bud is the becoming of the rose; the death or destruction
of the seed is the prelude to its resurrection as wheat. It is at night,
in the darkest hours, those preceding dawn, that plants grow best, that
they most increase in size....

 —William G. Jordan

 Failure comes only when we forget our ideals and objectives and
principles and begin to wander away from the road that leads to their
realization....

 —Jawaharlal Nehru

 In God’s economy, nothing is wasted. Through failure, we learn a
lesson in humility which is probably needed, painful though it is....
— Bill Wilson

 Only those who dare to fail greatly can ever achieve greatly....

 —Robert F. Kennedy

 Through humiliation and despair, failure and mistakes, the ego may be
crushed to the ground....

 —Paul Brunton

 Failure never hurt anybody. It is fear of failure that kills you....You
got to go down the alley and take those chances....	— Jack Lemmon

 Sometimes noble failure serves the world as faithfully as a
distinguished success....	— Edward Dowden

 You always pass failure on the way to success....	— Mickey Rooney

 When an archer misses the mark, he turns and looks for the fault within
himself. Failure to hit the bulls-eye is never the fault of the target.
To improve your aim—improve yourself....

 —Gilbert Arland

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Failure/Mistake

 There is only one real failure in life that is possible, and that is
not to be true to the best one knows....

 —Frederic W. Farrar

 The failures and reverses which await men and one after another sadden
the brow of youth—add a dignity to the prospect of human life, which
no Arcadian success would do....

 —Henry D. Thoreau

 Many a man fails because he never tries....	— Norman MacEwan

 Failures always overtake those who have the power to do, without the
will to act....	— James Ellis

 Men heap together the mistakes of their lives and create a monster they
call Destiny....	— John O. Hobbs

 There are some defeats more triumphant than victories....

 —Michel Montaigne

 Man thinks he can fail; man thinks he is failing, man thinks he has
failed. Man thinks others are failing and that others have failed him.
This is not true. What we have called failure is but the unfolding
experiences that have brought us to this present time....

 —Sue Sikhing

 I have found that failure is a far better teacher than success....

 —Bernard M. Baruch

 I never blame failure—there are too many complicated situations in
life—but I am absolutely merciless towards lack of effort....

 —Francis Scott Key

 There is no cure for failure, except success; it is failure that gives
success its value....	— Walter Winchell

  143  ♦?	 Failure	/Mistake 

 *pp	

 It is defeat that turns bone to flint andgristle to muscle, and makes
men invin-cible....Do not then be afraid of defeat.You are never so near
victory as whendefeated in a good cause....

 —Henry W. Beecher

 Failure changes for the better, successfor the worse....	— Seneca

 Failure is not external. It means some-thing is disordered within....

 —Paramananda

 We mount to heaven on the ruins ofour cherished schemes, finding our
fail-ures were successes....

 —Amos B. Alcott

 Defeat never comes to any man until headmits it....	— Josephus
Daniels

 Failures come to all of us. No matterhow hard we try sometimes, things
willgo wrong....Do not be discouragedbecause of failures; begin over....

 —Ida S. Taylor

 The way to succeed is to double yourfailure rate....	— Thomas Watson

 Whether we stumble, or whether wefall, we must only think of rising
againand going on in our course....

 —Francois Fenelon

 There is no failure except in no longer trying. There is no defeat
except from within, no really insurmountable barrier save our own
inherent weakness of purpose....	 —Elbert Hubbard

 We learn wisdom from failure much more than from success. We often
discover what will do by finding out what will not do, and probably he
who never made a mistake never made a discovery....	— Samuel Smiles

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Failure/Mistake 	♦?	 144	*
Failure/Mistake

   	

 Failure and frustration are in the written pages of everyone’s
record....

 —Marian Anderson

 The surest recipe for failure is to try to please everyone....	—
Anonymous

 I am not discouraged, because every wrong attempt discarded is another
step forward....	— Thomas A. Edison

 Whenever one finds oneself inclined to bitterness, it is a sign of
emotional failure....	— Bertrand Russell

 Failure is just another word for learning....failure can lead us in new
directions....	— Lois Wolfe-Morgan

 A  failure establishes only this, that our determination to succeed was
not strong enough....	— Christian Bovee

 Some of your greatest advances you have judged as failures, and some of
your deepest retreats you have evaluated as success....

 —A Course In Miracles

 A  fool often fails because he thinks what is difficult is easy, and a
wise man because he thinks what is easy is difficult....	— John C.
Collins

 Failure is only postponed success....

 —Herbert Kaufman

 What would you attempt to do if you knew you could not fail?...

 —Robert Schuller

 When you speak of failure, you attract failure. When you speak of
success, you attract success....	— Napoleon Hill

 I cannot give you a formula for success, but I can give you the formula
for failure—which is: try to please everybody....

 —Herbert B. Swope

 Failure is not fatal; victory is not success....	— Tony Richardson

 While one person hesitates because he feels inferior, the other is busy
making mistakes and becoming superior....

 —Henry Link

 The biggest contributor to failure is a poor self-image....	— Will
Munson

 If you aim high enough, there is even some glory in failure....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 No man ever became great or good except through many and great
mistakes....	— William Gladstone

 Though all men fail you, and all material sources fail, God is the
same, yesterday and today, and forever; and if you put your trust in God
within, you can never fail, because God, by nature, can never fail
you....	— Henry T. Hamblin

 The shame is never in having failed— the shame is only in not having
tried....

 —Andrew Matthews

 Mistakes are the portals of discovery....

 —James Joyce

 Strong people make as many and as ghastly mistakes as weak people. The
difference is that strong people admit them, laugh at them, learn from
them. This is how they become strong....

 —Richard Needham

 If thou art a man, admire those who attempt great things, even though
they fail....	— Seneca

 Without divine assistance I cannot succeed; with it I cannot fail....

 —Abraham Lhwoln

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Failure/Mistake	*	1

 He who fears being conquered is sure of defeat.... — Napoleon
Bonaparte

 Good people are good because they’ve come to wisdom through
failure....

 —William Saroyan

 Failure is one of God’s educators. It is experience leading man to
higher things; it is the revelation of a way, a path hitherto unknown to
us. The best men in the world....look back with serene happiness on
their failure....

 —William G. Jordan

 We are all of us failures—at least, the best of us are....	— James
M. Barrie

 Failure teaches you that you can’t count on winning. It provides you
with a chance to learn how to deal with defeat....	— Wess Roberts

 There is always another chance....This thing called “failure” is
not the falling down but staying down....

 —Mary Pickford

 Failure generally takes the path of least persistence....	— Anonymous

 An occasional mistake is inevitable, but our mistakes are rarely all
that important, and never as disastrous as our minds make them out to
be....

 —C.  H. Teear

 If I were asked to put into one word the greatest cause of failure I
would say “negativity.” This habit of seeing the ills of life and
ignoring the forces leading to accomplishment is far too universal....
— David Seabury

 Any man may make a mistake, but none but the fool will continue in
it....

 —Cicero

 5 *	Failure/Mistake

 We must never forget that disobedience to God’s laws brings disaster,
although people eventually do learn by their own mistakes....	— Peace
Pilgrim

 The road to wisdom? Well, it’s plain and simple to express: Err and
err and err again but less and less and less....

 -—Piet Hein

 Experience is the name so many people give to their mistakes.... —
Oscar Wilde

 From error to error one discovers the entire truth....	— Sigmund
Freud

 Unreasonable haste is the direct road to error....	— Moliere

 If you shut your door to all errors, truth will be shut out....

 —Rabindrinath Tagore

 It is a mistake to look too far ahead. Only one link in the chain of
destiny can be handled at a time....

 —Winston Churchill

 An expert is someone who knows some of the worst mistakes that can be
made in his subject and how to avoid them....

 —Werner Heisenberg

 Every great mistake has a halfway moment, a split second when it can be
recalled and perhaps remedied....

 —Pearl Buck

 There is no fool like the fool who will continue to kick the rubbish of
his mistakes along the path ahead of him, and then be compelled to
stumble over these mistakes a second time....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 Of course we make mistakes; it’s how we learn. We’re all in
training. Life can be difficult; what an opportunity....

 —Dan Millman

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Failure/Mistake	*	146	*	Faith

 	  •SP’		

 Experience enables you to recognize a mistake when you make it
again....

 —Franklin P. Jones

 If the first button of a man’s coat is wrongly buttoned, all the rest
will be crooked....	— Giordano Bruno

 The sages do not consider that making no mistake is a blessing. They
believe rather that the virtue of man lies in his ability to correct his
mistakes and continue to make a new man of himself....

 —Wang Yang Ming

 No persons are more frequently wrong, than those who will not admit
they are wrong...	— Francois La Rochefoucauld

 Mistakes are your best teachers....

 —Sivananda

 Mistakes are lessons of wisdom....

 —Hugh White

 Whenever you meet a misfortune, put it into your past. Keep your mind
upon future achievement, and you will find that mistakes of the past
often work to fill the future with good....

 —Napoleon Hill

 People are failures, not because they are stupid, but because they are
not sufficiently impassioned....

 —Burt Struthers

 A full and candid admission of one’s mistakes should make proof
against its repetition....	-— Mohandas Gandhi

 You need the ability to fail. I’m amazed at the number of
organizations that set up an environment where they do not permit their
people to be wrong. You cannot innovate unless you are willing to accept
some mistakes....

 —Charles Knight

 The only man who never makes a mistake is the man who never does
anything....	— Theodore Roosevelt

 All failures are apparent, not real. Every slip, every fall, every
return to selfishness is a lesson learned, an experience gained, from
which a golden grain of wisdom is extracted....

 —James Allen

 There is no height to which you cannot climb; no difficulty which you
cannot overcome; no failure which cannot be retrieved....	— Henry T.
Hamblin

 There is no such thing as failure for people who have done their
best....

 —Anonymous

 Failure is, in a sense, the highway to success, insomuch as every
discovery of what is false leads us to seek earnestly after what is
true, and every fresh experience points out some form of error which we
shall afterward carefully avoid....	— John Keats

 Failure is the opportunity to begin again more intelligently....

 —Henry Ford

 A  man carries his success or failure with him: it is not dependent
upon outside conditions.... — Ralph W. Trine

  Faith 

 I

 t is the heart which experiencesGod, and not reason. This, then, is

 faith: God felt by heart, not by reason....

 —Blaise Pascal

 Neither reproaches nor encouragements are able to revive a faith that
is waning....	— Nathalie Sarraute

 Faith

 When you rely upon the invisible world there is no place for anything,
however small, as a provision....

 — Kitab-Rahi

 Faith is a function of the heart. It must be enforced by reason. The
two are not antagonistic as some think. The more intense one’s faith
is, the more it whets one’s reason. When faith becomes blind it
dies....	— Mohandas Gandhi

 Faith is no faith which is not tried....

 —Katherine Zell

 Nothing in life is more wonderful than faith—the one great moving
force which we can never weigh in the balance nor test in the
laboratory....

 —William Osier

 There is no greater God than faith....

 —Nityananda

 If you repeat anything constantly and generate enough faith to believe
that what you are saying is correct, your mind will become what you are
repeating....	— AnnamalaiSwami

 What is the use of having faith? It is to connect the soul with God.
And what is the object of connecting man with God? That he may become
like God....

 —Henry Drummond

 Faith is one of the powers of youth and doubt is a symptom of
senility....

 —Eliphas Levi

 In truth, there is no real conflict between faith and reason....

 —Lakshmana Sarma

 The test of our faith is our willingness to suffer for it....The
supreme test of faith comes in our belief in a life hereafter....	—
Alice H. Rice

 147  ♦?	 Faith

 	

 The most meager hope is nearer thetruth than the most rational
despair....

 —Charles Wagner

 Faith is not only the means to God, butthe end....	— Bernadette
Roberts

 Faith is acknowledging that you knownothing....	— Anonymous

 All the strength and force of mancomes from his faith in
thingsunseen....	— J. F. Clarke

 Faith receives; love gives. No one willbe able to receive without
faith. No onewill be able to give without love....

 —Gospel of Philip

 The principal part of faith is patience....

 —George MacDonald

 Faith is a dynamic power that breaksthe chain of routine.... — Helen
Keller

 One doesn’t discover new lands with-out consenting to lose sight of
the shorefor a very long time....	— Andre Gide

 Faith is the belief in the unknown.Faith heals, faith creates, faith
workswonders, faith moves mountains. Faithis the searchlight for
God-finding....

 —Sivananda

 An emotionally healthy person is com-mitted to a principle higher
thanhimself: he has faith....

 —Sue Wahlroos

 Faith worships at the shrine of one notseen; but doubt must see her
God....

 —The Aquarian Gospel

 To leap across an abyss, one is betterserved by faith than doubt....

 —William James

 Faith is the temple of virtues	

 —Amar Jyoti

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065    Faith 

 If a man wishes to be sure of the road hetreads on, he must close his
eyes and walk inthe dark....	— John of the Cross

 It is impossible to live a life of faithwithout prayer—continual
prayer. It isonly through persistence and persever-ance in prayer that
our faith can bemaintained....	— Henry T. Hamblin

 Faith remains a matter of personalexperience, like chocolate ice cream,
aday in autumn and greenness....

 —John Powell

 If you do not expect the unexpectedyou will not find it, for it is not
reachedby search or trial....	— Heraclitus

 Faith is better understood as a verbthan a noun, as a process than a
posses-sion. It is an on-again, off-again ratherthan once-and-for-all.
Faith is not surewhere you’re going but going anyway...

 —Frederick Buechner

 If one is willing to trust himself fully tothe Law, the Law will never
fail him. Itis the halfhearted trusting to it thatbrings uncertain, and
so, unsatisfactoryresults....	— Ralph W. Trine

 If you have faith as a grain of a mustardseed, you shall say unto the
mountain,“Remove hence to yonder place,” and itshall remove and
nothing will beimpossible to you....	— Jesus

 Faith is the biggest and best thing in aman’s life. Faith is power.
Doubt isweakness....	— Fred Van Amburgh

 Cease today to merely hope. Stop day-dreaming. Forget about wishing,
andremember to formulate the conscious-

 ness which corresponds with what youtruly desire in life.... — Frank
Richelieu

 Faith

 Faith supplies staying power....Anyone can keep going when the going is
good, but some extra ingredient is needed to keep you fighting when it
seems that everything is against you....

 —Norman V. Peale

 Faith argues not, thinks not, reasons not....	— Sivananda

 Hope springs eternal in the human breast....	-— Alexander Pope

 Man must be arched and buttressed from within, else the temple wavers
to dust....	— Marcus Aurelius

 Faith is the consciousness of a reservoir too deep for earthly droughts
to run dry....	— Anonymous

 Divine bounty and provision never fail if we only hang on long enough
with faith. If we cast ourselves upon God, entirely and completely, then
God has to deliver us, because God can never fail anyone who trusts
entirely....

 —George Muller

 Hope is the pillar that holds up the world, the dream of a waking
man....

 -—Pliny the Elder

 Faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not
seen....

 —Paul of Tarsus

 Faith begins as an experiment and ends as an experience....	— W. R.
Inge

 Our dependence upon God ought to be so entire and absolute that we
should never think it necessary, in any kind of distress, to seek out
human consolations....	— Thomas a Kempis

 It is necessary to the happiness of man that he be mentally faithful to
himself....	— Thomas Paine

 * 148  ♦?

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Faith	*	1

 I have lived eighty-six years. I have watched men climb up to success,
hundreds of them, and of all the elements that are important for
success, the most important is faith...	— James Gibbons

 There is no medicine like hope, no incentive so great, and no tonic so
powerful, as expectation of something tomorrow...	— Orison S. Mar den

 Faith....looks upward and decries objects remote; but reason can
discover things only near, and sees nothing that is above her....	—
Francis Quarles

 Faith comes about in a collision of the unending passion for Truth and
the failure to attain it by one’s own means....	— Abraham J. Heschel

 Fear knocked at the door. Faith answered....	— Irish proverb

 The whole course of things goes to teach us faith. We need only obey.
There is guidance for each of us, and by lowly listening we shall hear
the right word....	— Ralph W. Emerson

 Faith is not something to be sought after. Faith is something to be
discovered within ourselves....

 —Norma Hawkins

 A  faith that varies with differing conditions of life is no faith at
all....

 —Anonymous

 Faith can grow only by long cultivation and careful attention....

 —Sathya Sai Baba

 Faith is positive, enriching life in the here and now. Doubt is
negative, robbing life of glow and meaning. So though I do not
understand immortality, I choose to believe....

 —Webb B. Garrison

 9 *	Faith

 Blind faith should be turned into rational faith. Faith without
understanding is only blind faith. Devotion is the development of faith.
Knowledge is the development of devotion. Faith leads to the final
spiritual experience. Whatever a person strongly believes in, that he
experiences and becomes....

 —Sivananda

 All things are possible until they are proved impossible—and even the
impossible may only be so as of now....

 —Pearl S. Buck

 Faith is a simple childlike belief in a Divine Friend who solves all
problems that come to us....	— Helen Keller

 When proof is possible, faith becomes impossible! And when proof is
impossible, faith becomes possible!...

 —Robert Schuller

 By the power of faith every enduring work is accomplished. Faith in the
Supreme; faith in the over-ruling Law; faith in your work, and in your
power to accomplish that work—here is the rock upon which you must
build if you would achieve, if you would stand and not fall....	—
James Allen

 Faith is a belief in things that your senses have not experienced and
your mind does not understand, but you have touched them in other ways
and have accepted them. It is easy for one to speak of faith; it is
another thing to live it....	— Peace Pilgrim

 In the midst of winter I found within me an invincible summer....

 —Albert Camus

 With faith a man is never alone, never forsaken....Faith is one of the
forces by which men live, and the total absence of it means collapse....

 —William James

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Faith	*	150 	♦?	 Faith

 	 tv 	

 Faith is the bird that sings when the dawn is still dark....

 —Rabindranath Tagore

 If you have faith in God, or man, or self, say so. If not, push back
upon the shelf of silence all your thoughts, till faith shall come....

 —Ella Wheeler Wilcox

 The man of faith must burn his boats behind him every day of his life.
Indeed, he needs no boats, because....he walks on the sea of experience
upheld by invisible forces....

 —Henry T. Hamblin

 Directed faith makes every thought crackle with power. You can rise to
limitless heights impelled by lifting forces of your mighty new
self-confidence....

 —Napoleon Hill

 Be faithful to your love and you will be recompensed beyond measure....

 —Albert Schweitzer

 Faith is the subtle chain that binds us to the infinite.... —
Elizabeth O. Smith

 God never fails His devotees in the hour of trial. The condition is
that there must be a living faith and the uttermost reliance on Him. The
test of faith is that having done our duty we must be prepared to
welcome whatever He may send—joy as well as sorrow, good luck as well
as bad....

 —Mohandas Gandhi

 Faith....is the resolve to live as if certain things were true, in the
confident assurance that they are true, and that we shall one day find
out for ourselves that they are true....	— W.	R. Inge

 In the midst of sorrow, faith draws out the sting of every trouble, and
takes out the bitterness from every affliction....

 —Richard Cecil

 Faith moves mountains, but you have to keep pushing while you are
praying....	— Mason Cooley

 Logic and cold reason are poor weapons to fight fear and distrust. Only
faith and generosity can overcome them....	— Jawaharlal Nehru

 Faith is believing where we cannot prove....	— Alfred L. Tennyson

 Faith without works is like a bird without wings; though she may hop
about on earth, she will never fly to heaven....

 — J. Beaumont

 Faith is a rare flower of inestimable value. It must be cultivated in
the garden of your heart. It must be watered daily with the water of
sincerity. The weeds of doubts and misgivings should be totally
eradicated. Then faith will strike deep root, blossom and bear the fruit
of devotion quickly....

 —Sivananda

 In actual life every great enterprise begins with and takes its first
forward step in faith....  -—August von Schlegel

 If our faith is real, it must encroach upon our life....	— Karl Barth

 Faith is not a thing which one “loses,” we merely cease to shape
our lives by it....	— George Bemaos

 Faith is the door through which we enter the supernatural order. It
opens to heaven....	— Abbot Chapman

 Faith is devotion to God....

 —Jacob Katz

 Hope lives in ignorance, open-eyed. Faith is built upon our knowledge
of our life....	— Robert L. Stevenson

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Faith

 151

 -  C *5Ps’ -

 Faith

 No black cloud can settle down and overshadow the faith of a good man.
In his darkest hour, the true man can see a rift in the clouds, and
there find a rainbow of hope.... — Fred Van Amburgh

 Faith not based on understanding is worse than atheism....

 —Judah L. Gordon

 Faith is the root of all blessings. Believe, and you shall be saved;
believe, and your needs must be satisfied; believe, and you cannot but
be comforted and happy....	— Jeremy Taylor

 Faith does nothing alone—nothing of itself, but everything under God,
by God, through God.... — John Stoughton

 Many of us say that we have faith, and that we believe that our supply
will manifest, yet at the same time make arrangements in case it does
not appear....We say we are going to be victorious, yet we make
preparations for defeat. The life of faith cannot be lived in this
way....	— Henry T. Hamblin

 Faith is the capacity of the soul to perceive the abiding....in the
transitory, the invisible in the visible....

 —Leon Baeck

 Faith has need of the whole truth....

 —Teilhard de Chardin

 Where is the law that says all things are not possible? No such law
exists. Everything is possible to one who understands that limits
created by humans can be dispensed with....

 —David Manners

 Faith must have adequate evidence, else it is mere superstition....

 —Archibald A. Hodge

 Faith is the root of all good works....

 —Daniel Wilson

 Faith is to believe, on the word of God, what we do not see, and its
reward is to see and enjoy what we believe....

 —Augustine

 Faith expressed in action is a sure means of realization....Faith is
not blind. It is the willingness to try....

 —Nisargadatta

 He who has no faith in himself can never have faith in God....

 —Vivekananda

 All the scholastic scaffolding falls, as a ruined edifice, before one
single word —faith....	— Napoleon Bonaparte

 Faith is like a fond mother who can never fail to save her trusting son
from dangerous situations....

 —Tripura Rahasya

 There is a thing the world calls disappointment but there is no such
word in the dictionary of faith.... — John Newton

 Let us never lose faith in human nature, no matter how often we are
deceived....	— Chauncey M. Depew

 Act as if you had faith and in time faith will take hold of you....	—
Sufii saying

 Only the person who has faith in himself is able to be faithful to
others....

 —Erich Fromm

 Things of God that are marvelous are to be believed on a principle of
faith, and not to be pried into by reason....

 —Samuel Gregory

 A  faith that cannot survive collusion with the truth is not worth many
regrets....	— Arthur C. Clarke

 I do not pray for success. I ask for faithfulness....	— Mother Teresa

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Faith	*	1

 As soon as a man rejects all visible help and human hope, and follows
after God with faith and a pure heart, grace straightaway follows after
him and reveals its power in help of various kinds....	— Isaac of
Syria

 Faith is like love: it cannot be forced. As trying to force love begets
hatred, so trying to compel....belief leads to unbelief....	— Arthur
Schopenhauer

 Faith is an invisible and invincible magnet, and attracts to itself
whatever it fervently desires and calmly and persistently expects....
— Ralph W. Trine

 Life is God’s novel. Let Him write it....

 —Isaac Bashevis Singer

 Faith is an excitement and an enthusiasm: it is a condition of
intellectual magnificence to which we must cling as to treasure, and not
squander in the small coin of empty words....

 —George Sand

 In spiritual matters, faith is the very essence. Doubt shakes the
foundations of spiritual practices and is therefore to be avoided. Have
faith in the wisdom of the ancients; do not pitch your tiny little brain
against the intuitions of the saints and their discoveries....

 —Sathya Sai Baba

 It gives me a deep comforting sense that things seen are temporal and
things unseen are eternal....

 —Helen Keller

 Faith is the flame that lights the candle of life and without it we are
fallow....

 — William, R. Miller

 Faith is personal, individual....Faith comes in the finding of one’s
self. This self-finding establishes a clear realization of one’s
identity with the eternal....

 —Claude M. Bristol

 2  ♦?	 Faith

 Faith is not blind to needs; faith faces reality but sees reality as
measured by God, not as measured by man....

 —Anonymous

 Life would not be worth living without faith. Faith in God, faith in
ourselves, faith in our fellow men; we should omit none of the three....

 —Ida S. Taylor

 Faith is....an act, an intention, a project, something that makes you,
in leaping into the future, go so far, far, far ahead that you shoot
clean out of time and right into eternity....	— Joanna Russ

 Through faith the imagination is invigorated and completed, for it
really happens that every doubt mars its perfection. Faith must
strengthen the imagination, for faith establishes the will....	—
Paracelsus

 Work without faith is like an attempt to reach the bottom of a
bottomless pit....

 —Mohandas Gandhi

 We must embrace the absurd and go beyond everything we have ever
known....	— Janie Gustafson

 Faith is a grand cathedral, with divinely pictured windows. Standing
without, you see no glory, nor can imagine any, but standing within,
every ray of light reveals a harmony of unspeakable splendors....	—
Nathaniel Hawthorne

 Faith always implies the disbelief of a lesser fact in favor of a
greater. A little mind often sees the unbelief, without seeing the
belief of large ones....

 —Oliver W. Holmes

 By faith you can move mountains; but the important thing is not to move
mountains, but to have faith....

 —Arthur Clutton-Brock

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Faith

 153

 Faith

 Without faith a man can do nothing....

 —Henri F. Amiel

 It is cynicism and fear that freezes life; it is faith that thaws it
out, releases it, sets it free....	— Harry E. Fosdick

 Ultimately faith is the only key to the universe. The final meaning of
human existence, and the answers to the questions on which all our
happiness depends cannot be found in any other way....	— Thomas Merton

 No ray of sunlight is ever lost, but the green which it wakes into
existence needs time to sprout, and it is not always granted to the
sower to live to see the harvest. All work that is worth anything is
done in faith....

 —Albert Schweitzer

 The only faith that wears well, and holds its color in all weathers, is
that which is woven of conviction....

 —James Russell Lowell

 Faith laughs at the shaking of a spear; unbelief trembles at the
shaking of a leaf; unbelief starves the soul, faith finds food in
famine, and a table in the wilderness....	— Robert Cecil

 Faith is affirming success before it comes. Faith is making claims to
victory before it is achieved....

 —Robert Schuller

 Faith is nothing more or less than the operation of the thought forces
in the form of earnest desire, coupled with expectation as to its
fulfillment....

 —Ralph W. Trine

 The greatest undeveloped resource in our country is faith....	— Roger
Babson

 Faith declares what the senses do not see....	— Blaise Pascal

 If faith is lacking, it is because there is too much selfishness, too
much concern for personal gain. For faith to be true, it has to be
generous and loving. Love and faith go together, they complete each
other.... — Mother Teresa

 The reason why birds can fly and we can’t is simply that they have
perfect faith, for to have faith is to have wings....	— James M.
Barrie

 Faith is the pencil of the soul that pictures heavenly things....

 —Thomas Burbridge

 Faith is the a-b-c of the realization of God....	— Hazrat Inayat Khan

 Faith is the wire that connects you to grace, and over which grace
comes streaming from God....	— Anonymous

 Reason is our soul’s left hand. Faith her right; by these we reach
divinity....

 —John Donne

 Faith is not belief in spite of evidence, but life in scorn of
consequences....

 —Kirsopp Lake

 The faith that stands on authority is not faith....	— Ralph W.
Emerson

 A  little faith brings your soul to heaven, but a lot of faith will
bring heaven to your soul....	— Dwight L. Moody

 The idea of faith is often misunderstood by people, because they
associate it with those who are ignorant, uneducated, and who have no
power to investigate for themselves. But faith is not blind belief. It
is never well-founded until it is based on experience....

 —Paramananda

 Faith and unfaith can never be equal powers....	— Alfred L. Tennyson

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Faith 	♦?	 1

 At the summit of every noble human endeavor, you will find a steeple
pointing toward God....	— Mack Stokes

 Much knowledge of divine things is lost to us through want of faith....

 —Heraclitus

 Lack of faith in God is the source of most of society’s troubles....

 —Albert E. Ribourg

 Our only protection against fear is faith....	— Ryllis G. Lynip

 Faith and Truth is the same thing— God’s side is Truth, our side is
Faith....

 —Bernadette Roberts

 Learning to be men and women of faith is like being trained as an
athlete. We have to be tested, and our training made more severe, so
that our strength and powers of endurance are increased
progressively....Every time of testing prepares us for greater
adventures in faith....	 —Henry T. Hamblin

 God is there for them that have faith and not for them who have not....

 —Papa Ramdas

 &

  Falsehood 

 L

 ying to ourselves is more deeplyingrained than lying to others....

 —Fyodor Dostoyevsky

 Falsehood is so easy; truth so difficult....

 —George Eliot

 If there were no falsehood in the world, there would be no doubt; if
there were no doubt, there would be no inquiry; if no inquiry, no
wisdom....

 —Walter S. Landor

 4 *	Falsehood

 One person speaks a falsehood, a hundred repeat it as fact, and soon it
becomes a truth....	— Shantidasa

 Truth is the day of soul, and the night is falsehood. All truth implies
falsehood because forms are limited, and all falsehood implies and
necessitates a truth in the rectification of the finite by the
infinite....	— Eliphas Levi

 It is falsehood and illusion that always make one suffer—never the
truth....

 —Anonymous

 Man cannot play false to his heredity forever. Spawned by the gods, he
must return to them....	— PaulBrunton

 Overcome falsehood with truth....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 A  man should blush to think a falsehood; it is a disease of
cowards....

 —Charles Johnson

 Once you see the false as false, it is not necessary any further to
seek the truth....	— Nisargadatta

 Whatever is only almost true is quite false and among the most
dangerous of errors....	— Henry W. Beecher

 The telling of a falsehood is like a cut of a sabre; for though the
wound may heal, the scar of it will remain....

 —Saadi

 Falsehood, like poison, will generally be rejected when administered
alone, but when blended with wholesome ingredients, may be swallowed
unperceived....	— Richard Whatley

 Falsehood often lurks upon the tongue of him, who, by self-praise,
seeks to enhance his value in the eyes of others....	— James G.
Bennett

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Falsehood

 Falsehoods not only disagree with truths, but usually quarrel among
themselves....	— Daniel Webster

 Falsehood has an infinity of combinations, but truth has only one mode
of being....	— Jean J. Rousseau

 Falsehood may have its hour, but it has no future....	— Francois D.
Pressense

 Falsehood is never so successful as when she baits her hook with truth,
and no opinions so falsely mislead us as those that are not wholly
wrong....

 —Charles C. Colton

 Fraud and falsehood only dread examination. Truth invites it....

 —Thomas Cooper

 You cannot play with the animal in you without becoming wholly animal,
play with falsehood without forfeiting your right to truth, play with
cruelty without losing your sensitivity of mind. He who wants to keep
his garden tidy doesn’t reserve a plot for weeds....

 —Dag Hammarskjold

 Falsehood is a refuge, an asylum for the cruel, the violent, for
consummate animals. What begins in a lie ends in a blasphemy....	—
Abraham J. Heschel

 The most dangerous of all follies is perverted wisdom....	— Eliphas
Levi

 &

 Fame

 T

 here is not in the world so toil-some a trade as the pursuit of

 fame....	— Jean La Bruyere

 Fame is a fickle food upon a shifting plate....	— Emily Dickinson

 155 *	Fame

 C X?P  	

 Most people who have attained inner peaceare not famous....	— Peace
Pilgrim

 Man in blessing others finds his highestfame....	— Sara J. Hale

 One of the drawbacks of Fame is thatone can never escape from it....

 —Nellie Melba

 Fame always brings loneliness. Successis as ice cold as the north
pole....

 —Vicki Baum

 Those who make fame and the opinionof others their life’s goal are
alwayspanting after it like a thirsty dog. Theynever find peace.... —
Martin Grey

 Fame has also this great drawback, thatif we pursue it we must direct
our livesin such a way as to please the fancy ofmen, avoiding what they
dislike andseeking what is pleasing to them....

 —Baruch Spinoza

 Fame is sometimes like unto a kind ofmushroom, which Pliny recounts to
bethe greatest miracle in nature becausegrowing and having no root....

 —Thomas Fuller

 Good fame is like a fire; when you havekindled it, you may easily
preserve it;but if you extinguish it, you will noteasily kindle it
again....

 —Francis Bacon

 Fame is but the empty noise of mad-men....	— Epictetus

 We all want to be famous people, andthe moment we want to be
somethingwe are no longer free....

 — J. Krishnamurti

 Fame is a flippant lover....

 —Wole Soyinka

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Fame

 156

 -  -

 Fame

 Fame is nothing but an empty name....

 —Charles Churchill

 Fame is what you have taken; character is what you give; when to this
truth you waken, then you begin to live....

 —Bayard Taylor

 Everyone has a lurking wish to appear considerable in his native
place....

 —Samuel Johnson

 Love of fame is the last thing even the wise give up....	— Tacitus

 Let us satisfy our own consciences, and trouble not ourselves by
looking for fame....If we deserve it, we shall attain it; if we deserve
it not, we cannot force it....	— Seneca

 Men think highly of those who rise rapidly in the world, whereas
nothing rises quicker than dust, straw and feathers....	— Augustus &
Julius Hare

 The is no road of flowers leading to glory....	— Jean La Fontaine

 Fame is an empty bubble....

 —James Grainger

 In fame’s temple there is always to be found a niche for rich dunces,
importunate scoundrels, or success butchers of the human race....

 —Johann G. Zimmerman

 Fame to the ambitious, is like saltwater to the thirsty—the more one
gets, the more one wants....	— EmilEbers

 Glory is fleeting, but obscurity is forever....	— Napoleon Bonaparte

 What is fame? A many-colored cloak, without warmth, without
protection....

 —Berthold Auerbach

 Fate and circumstances seize only the ignorant; the wise have learned
to be free from both. Fame and rest are utter opposites....	— Richard
Steele

 Fame is an epitaph that must be brief; and fortunately, the epitaph
cannot be all told on the tombstone....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 Fame is like a river, that beareth up things light and swollen, and
drowns things weighty and solid....

 —Francis Bacon

 Worldly fame is but a breath of wind that blows now this way, and now
that, and changes name as it changes direction....	— Dante Al igh ieri

 Popularity? It’s glory’s small change....

 —Victor Hugo

 The desire for fame tempts even noble minds....	— Augustine

 What a heavy burden is a name that has become too famous.... —
Voltaire

 He who seeks to gain fame and reputation shall lose it; he who does not
seek fame and reputation shall gain it....

 —The Talmud

 Fame—a few words upon a tombstone, and the truth of those not
depended upon....	— Christian Bovee

 Who are these by whom you wish to be admired? Are not these men whom
you generally describe as mad? Why do you want them? Do you want to be
admired by madmen?...	— Epictetus

 No true and permanent Fame can be founded except in labors which
promote the happiness of mankind....

 —Charles Sumner

                    shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Fame	*	157 	♦?	
Fate/Destiny

 All fame is dangerous: Good bringeth envy; bad, shame....	— Thomas
Fuller

 All people have the common desire to be elevated in honor, but all
people have something still more elevated in themselves without knowing
it....

 —Mencius

 Fame is proof that people are gullible....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 &

  Fate/Destiny 

 O

 ur fate is matched by the totalfreedom we have to react to our

 fate. It is as if we were dealt a hand ofcards. Once we have them, we
are freeto play them as we choose....

 —Thomas Sowell

 Of course, fortune has its part inhuman affairs, but conduct is
reallymuch more important....

 —Jeanne Detourbey

 Sometimes our fate resembles a fruittree in winter. Who would think
thatthese branches would turn green againand blossom, but we hope it, we
knowit....	— Johann W. Goethe

 If you would know the meaning ofdestiny, understand that it is not a
mapof where you are going to go. Rather, itis where you will go if you
will flowwith existence without a struggle....

 —Ormand McGill

 Failure or success seems to have beenallotted to men by their stars.
But theyretain the power of wriggling, of

 fighting with their star or against it,and in the whole universe, the
onlyinteresting movement is this wriggle....

 — E. M. Forster

 By cultivating free will, one can conquer fate....	— Ramana Maharshi

 Chance is the pseudonym of God when he did not want to sign....

 —Anatole France

 Fate! There is no fate. Between the thought and the success God is the
only agent....Fate is not the ruler, but the servant of Providence....

 —Edward Bulwer-Lytton

 Fate is only a name for the final result of all our efforts....	—
Sivananda

 Nothing is predestined; there is nothing that cannot be avoided. And if
indeed, there are “matters hidden by the gods,” you need only
remember: what beckons is the creative power of the unknown....	
—-Ralph Blum

 The greater part of our happiness or misery depends on our dispositions
and not on our circumstances....

 —Martha Washington

 Destiny is not a matter of chance; it is a matter of choice. It is not
a thing to be waited for; it is a thing to be achieved....

 —William J. Bryan

 When one was born one had no choice, nor does one have a choice when
faced with imminent “death.” In between birth and death, however,
man considers himself the master of his destiny. If only one gave some
quiet thought to the matter, one would surely find that almost every
significant event in one’s life has had an enormous element of
“chance” or “coincidence” in it....

 —Ramesh Balsekar

 Nothing comes by chance, for in all the world there is no such thing as
chance....	— Ralph W. Trine

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Fate/Destiny

 Whatever limits us we call Fate....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 No matter the barbs of fate that frustrate you, no matter how stacked
against you the cards of fortune....There is a liberating law in the
universe, and you can become the highest of the high, wisest of the
wise.... — U. S. Anderson

 The doctrine of chance is the bible of the fool....	— William G.
Simms

 Men at sometime are masters of their fate. The fault....is not in the
stars, but in ourselves....that we are underlings....

 —William Shakespeare

 Chance is a word void of sense; nothing can exist without a cause....
— Voltaire

 Chance is the nickname for Providence....	— Nicolas Chamfort

 To everything there is a season and a time for every purpose under
heaven....a time to be born and a time to die; to plant and pluck up; to
kill and to heal; to break down and build up; to weep and to laugh; to
keep silent and to speak; to love and to hate; a time of war and a time
of peace.... — Old Testament

 The harder you work, the luckier you get....	— Gary Player

 Fate is the friend of the good, the guide of the wise, the tyrant of
the foolish, the enemy of the bad....	— William R. Alger

 There is a Divine Plan behind everything, and if we allow ourselves to
be used by that unseen Force....many things can happen in a mysterious,
miraculous way. If we interfere with that Plan by introducing our own
plan, the egocentric plan, tension will be created....	— Satchidananda

 158 *	Fate/Destiny

  .p,	 

 When good befalls a man he calls itProvidence, when evil, fate....

 —Knut Hamsun

 By the word chance we merely expressour ignorance of the cause of any
factor effect—not that we think that chancewas itself the cause....
— Henry Fergus

 The thoughtless, the ignorant, and theindolent, seeing only the
apparenteffects of things and not the thingsthemselves, talk of luck, of
fortune, andchance....	— James Allen

 How a person masters his fate is moreimportant than what his fate
is....

 —Wilhelm von Humboldt

 I don’t believe in circumstances. Thepeople who get on in this world
are thepeople who get up and look for circum-stances they want.... —
George B. Shaw

 Nothing splendid has ever beenachieved except by those who daredbelieve
that something inside them wassuperior to circumstance....

 —Bruce Barton

 We do not know what is really good orbad fortune....	— Jean J.
Rousseau

 There is no such thing as chance; andwhat seems to us the merest
accidentsprings from the deepest source of des-tiny....	— Johann von
Schiller

 Chance usually favors the prudentman....	— Joseph Joubert

 People generally think that it is theworld, the environment, external
rela-tionships, which stand in one’s way, inthe way of one’s good
fortune....And atbottom it is always man himself thatstands in his own
way....

 —Sdren Kierkegaard

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Fate/Destiny

 159

 -  -*p* -

 Fault-finding

 Fate, destiny and luck—these are weak apologies for our own
faults....

 —Fred Van Arnburgh

 Luck is being ready for the chance....

 — J. Frank Dobie

 Depend not upon fortune, but on conduct....	— Publilius Syrus

 We are the makers of our own lives. There is no such thing as fate. Our
lives are the result of our previous actions, our karma, and it
naturally follows that, having been ourselves the makers of our karma,
we must also be able to unmake it....	— Vivekananda

 There is no Fate....Man is the creator of his destiny....	— Elias
Auerbach

 The true adventurer goes forth aimless and uncalculating to meet and
greet unknown fate....	— O. Henry

 Fate leads the willing and drags along the unwilling....	— Seneca

 Destiny is but a phrase of the weak human heart—the dark apology for
every error, the strongest and virtuous admit no destiny....

 —Edward Bulwer-Lytton

 Chance is always powerful. Let your hook be always cast. In the pool
where you least expect it, will be a fish....

 —Ovid

 We make our fortunes, and we call them fate....	— David Alroy

 Chance works for us when we are good captains....	— George Meredith

 The road is predestined, but the way we walk it, the attitude with
which we bear our fate, can be a great influence over events....

 —Richard Beer-Hoffmann

 A  strong belief in fate is the worst kind of slavery; on the other
hand there is a comfort in the thought that God will be moved by our
prayers....	— Epicurus

 If man lets destiny rule him, destiny more than willingly obliges....

 —Deepa Kodikal

  Fault-finding 

 C

 riticism is futile because it puts aman on the defensive, and usually

 makes a man strive to justify himself....

 —Dale Carnegie

 You show respect for another man’s opinions by never telling him he
is wrong....	— Anonymous

 Do not measure yourself short with the yardstick of judgement by
measuring the frailties of your fellow man....

 —Frater Achad

 Be wary of experts—you don’t need to be a shoemaker to know that
your shoes fit tight....	— Shantidasa

 Everybody is unique. Compare not yourself with anybody else lest you
spoil God’s curriculum....

 —Baal Shem Tov

 Correcting oneself is correcting the whole world. The sun is simply
bright. It does not correct anyone. Because it shines, the whole world
is full of light. Transforming yourself is a means of giving light to
the whole world....

 —Ramana Maharshi

 Whoever is aware of his own failings will not find fault with the
failings of other men....	— James Ross

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Fault-finding

 A new idea is delicate. It can be killed by a sneer or a yawn; it can
be stabbed to death by a quip and worried to death by a frown on the
right man’s brow....

 —Charles Brower

 Love in the making sees faults; love in the fulfillment sees none.
Seeing faults is like cutting love into pieces, murdering love....	—
Papa Ramdas

 The girl who cannot dance says the band can’t play.... — Yiddish
proverb

 Any time you make another person wrong, you have created evil and have
prepared the way for the overt acting out of that evil....	—Ron 
Smothermon

 Don’t complain about the snow on your neighbor’s roof, when your
own doorstep is unclean....	— Confucius

 You have in yourself all the faults which you scorn in others....

 —Will Durant

 No man can justly censure or condemn another, because indeed no man
truly knows another....	— Thomas Brown

 So long as we are full of self we are shocked at the faults of others.
Let us think often of our own sin, and we shall be lenient to the sins
of others....

 —Francois Fenelon

 We endeavor to make a virtue of the faults we are unwilling to
correct....

 —Francois La Rochefoucauld

 How much time a man gains who does not look to see what his neighbor
says, or does or thinks, but only what he does himself....	— Marcus
Aurelius

 The faultfinder will find faults even in Paradise....	— Henry D.
Thoreau

 160  ♦?	 Fault-finding

 Do not blame men when they err, but purify your own heart. Do not get
angry when the world forgets the Way, and ceases to abide by the law.
But look for the fault in yourself. The root of all evil is in
yourself....

 —Julian P. Johnson

 Vulgar people take huge delight in the faults and follies of great
men....

 —Arthur Schopenhauer

 Never throw mud. You may miss your mark. And you will certainly have
dirty hands....	 —Joseph	Parker

 The more you try to prove how wrong the other person is—in terms of
either lateness or impatience—the more the other person needs to
persist in proving how right he or she is....

 —Harold Bloomfield

 It requires no thought, no consideration, no character, no talent to be
a fault-finder....It is much easier to find fault then to find ways to
help....How easy to be critical and how hard to be correct. How easy to
find fault with others and how hard to mend our own ways....	— Fred
Van Amburgh

 Overlook the greatest fault of another, but do not partake of it
yourself in the smallest degree....

 —Hazrat Inayat Khan

 Faults of the head are punished in this world, those of the heart in
another....

 —Charles C. Colton

 See everything: overlook a good deal; correct a little....	— Pope
John XXIII

 If you are pleased at finding faults, you are displeased at finding
perfections....

 —John K. Lavater

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Fault-finding

 161

 Fault-finding

 Never complain about bad environments. Create your own mental world
wherever you remain and wherever you go. There are some difficulties and
disadvantages wherever you go....God has placed you there to grow
quickly....

 —Sivananda

 Every person should have a special cemetery lot in which to bury the
faults of friends and loved ones....

 —Anonymous

 And why do you behold the mote that is in your brother’s eye, and do
not consider the beam in your own eye....

 —Jesus

 It is far better to know our weaknesses and failings than to point out
those of others....	— Jawaharlal Nehru

 Faults are thick where love is thin....

 —James Howell

 If instead of seeing faults in others, we look within ourselves, we are
loving God....	— MeherBaba

 To hear complaints is wearisome alike to both the wretched and the
happy....

 —Samuel Johnson

 Ten thousand of the greatest faults in our neighbors are of less
consequence to us than one of the smallest in ourselves....	— Richard
Whatley

 He who complains, sins....

 —Francis de Sales

 The disease of men is this: that they neglect their own field, and go
weed the fields of others, and what they require from others is great,
while what they lay upon themselves is light....

 —Mencius

 The narrow-minded man thinks and says: “This man is one of us; this
one is not, he is a stranger.” To the man of noble soul the whole of
mankind is but one family....	— Hitopadesa

 When you are offended at any man’s fault, turn to yourself and study
your own failings. Then you will forget your anger....	— Epictetus

 As far as possible one should not interfere in the affairs of
others....

 —Ramana Maharshi

 You will find it less easy to uproot faults than to choke them by
gaining virtue....	— John Ruskin

 This life is not for complaint, but for satisfaction....	 —Henry D.
Thoreau

 Faults, mustard seed small, of others, you see well; your own, as large
as a melon, you see not....	— Mahabharata

 To attempt to correct others while one’s own virtue is clouded is to
set one’s own virtue a task for which it is inadequate....	— Kwang
Tze

 Speak evil of no one....

 —Mohammed

 Anyone can blame; it takes a specialist to praise.... — Konstaiitin
Stanislavsky

 The most savage controversies are those about matters as to which there
is no good evidence either way....

 —Bertrand Russell

 The faults of others we see easily; our own are very difficult to see.
Our neighbor’s faults we winnow eagerly, as chaff from grain; our own
we hide away....

 —Dhammapada

 How much easier it is to be critical than to be correct.... —
Benjamin Disraeli

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Fault-finding 	♦?	 162 	♦?	
Fault-finding

 Stop complaining about the management of the universe. Look around for
a place to sow a few seeds of happiness....	— Henry Van Dyke

 Let us look at our own faults, and not other people’s. We ought not
to insist on everyone following in our footsteps, nor to take upon
ourselves to give instructions in spirituality when, perhaps, we do not
even know what it is....

 —Theresa of Lisieux

 One of the distinguishing differences between a big man and a petty one
frequently is the ability to take criticism and profit by it instead of
getting indignant, stewed-up and resentful....

 —Douglas Lurton

 The real fault is to have faults and not to amend them....When you have
faults, do not fear to abandon them....

 —Confucius

 Nothing is easier than fault-finding. No talent, no self-denial, no
brains, no character is required to set up in the grumbling business....

 —Alfred A. Montapert

 It is the nature of love not to perceive a fault; once there is
evidence of finding fault, love has ceased to be....

 —Anonymous

 When you feel the urge to criticize and condemn the other fellow, crawl
into some cave, do some shouting and then listen to the echo. That will
teach you how disagreeable the thing sounds....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 A  man only begins to be a man when he ceases to whine and revile, and
commences to search for the hidden justice which regulates his life....

 —James Allen

 We should correct our own faults by seeing how uncomely they appear in
others....	— Francis Beaumont

 Fair play is primarily not blaming others for anything that is wrong
with

 us....	— EricHoffer

 You yourselves make or mar your lives. Still you are busy blaming and
finding fault with everybody in the world for your sufferings. You fail
to probe within and remove the seed of discontent which is in your
mind....

 —Papa Ramdas

 Every one is eagle-eyed to see another’s faults and deformity.... —
John Dryden

 It is a barren kind of criticism which tells you what is not....

 —Rufus W. Griswold

 No man should be judged by others here in this life, for good or for
evil that they do. Nevertheless, deeds may lawfully be judged, but not
the men....

 — TI]omas a Kempis

 It is much easier to find fault than to overlook a fault....	—
Anonymous

 Quarrels would not last long if the fault were only on one side....

 —Francois La Rochefoucauld

 Worrying about the faults of others is an unnecessary addition to the
worry we have over our own faults....

 —Hazrat Inayat Khan

 I see no fault committed by others that I have not committed myself....

 —Johann W. Goethe

 When we condemn other people, we generally indirectly mean to flatter
ourselves....	— John S. Blackie

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Fault-finding 	 ♦? 	 l

 The world is full of wooden people who are always doing their best to
whittle others down....	— Puzant K. Thomajan

 When you feel like finding fault with somebody or something, stop for a
moment and think; there is very apt to be something wrong within
yourself....

 — J. J. Reynolds

 When any fit of gloominess or perversion of mind lays hold of you, make
it a rule not to publish it by complaints, but exert your whole care to
hide it. By endeavoring to hide it, you will drive it away....	—
Samuel Johnson

 He that fancies himself very enlightened because he sees the
deficiencies of others, may be very ignorant, because he has not studied
his own....

 —Edward Bulwer-Lytton

 Those who look well after their own consciences rarely fall into the
sin of judging others.... — Jean P. Camus

 Deal with the faults of others as gently as with your own....

 —Chinese proverb

 Whatever one of us blames in another, each one will find in his own
heart....

 —Seneca

 Another’s “fault” is certainly a most valuable gift to me. It is
a mirror which allows me to choose another reflection....	— Hugh
Prather

 For man to find fault with his fellow man is to find fault with God.
God is faultless. Man cannot find fault with God. For if he endeavors to
find fault with God, he is but finding fault with himself....	— Frater
Achad

 Love sees no faults....

 —Thomas Fuller

 >3 *	Fault-finding

 Regarding that which happens in harmony with nature, we ought to blame
neither gods, for they do nothing wrong either voluntarily or
involuntarily, nor men, for they do nothing wrong except unconsciously.
Consequently, we shall blame no one....

 —Marcus Aurelius

 The flies seek filth, the bees seek honey. I will shun the habit of the
flies and follow that of the bees. I will refrain from finding faults in
others and only look for the good which is in them....

 —Hindu vow

 Finding fault with others, developing skill at discovering weakness and
inconsistency in others, will begin to eat into your peace of mind. If
you keep it up forever, it will eventually rob you of all the joys of
life....

 —James Mangan

 If he who carefully picks holes in the character of others would but
expend the same skill upon himself, what could prevent him from breaking
through the bonds of ignorance....

 —Anonymous

 Do you never look at yourself when you criticize another person?...

 —Plautus

 In the degree that we hold a person in the thought of evil or of error,
do we suggest evil and error to him....and so in this way we may be
sharers in the very evil-doing in which we hold another in thought....
— Ralph W. Trine

 It is only imperfection that complains of what is imperfect. The more
perfect we are, the more gentle and quiet we become towards the defects
of others....

 —Francois Fenelon

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Fault-finding 	♦?	 164

 	-*pr

 He censures God who quarrels with the imperfection of men....

 —Edmund Burke

 Always remember that a person that you find fault with a great deal,
will finally rebel....	— E. W. Howe

 Everything that irritates us about others can lead us to an
understanding of ourselves....	— Carl Jung

 Men always try to make virtues of their weaknesses....	— H. L.
Mencken

 The mystery of existence is the connection between our faults and our
misfortunes....	— Madame de Stael

  Fear 

 e should not let our fears holdus back from pursuing our

 hopes....	— John F. Kennedy

 Where there is hate there is fear and where there is fear there is
hate....

 —Papa Ramdas

 Two sturdy asses bind the will of man; their names are fear and
unbelief. When these are caught and turned aside, the will of man will
know no bounds....	— The Aquarian Gospel

 Never fear uncertainty. There is never anything to fear in uncertainty.
Fear arises because men want to be certain according to their terms, but
these terms are all wrong. It is quite possible to have a thousand
uncertainties and not have a single fear....

 —Vernon Howard

 Fear

 Almost all fear is fear of the unknown. Therefore, what’s the remedy?
To become acquainted with the thing you fear....	— Peace Pilgrim

 We promise according to our hopes and perform according to our
fears....

 —Francois La Rochefoucauld

 No passion so effectively robs the mind of all its powers of acting and
reasoning as fear....	— Edmund Burke

 Fear is not a good teacher. The lessons of fear are quickly
forgotten....

 ■?—Mary C. Bateson

 Fear is only an illusion. It is the illusion that creates the feeling
of separateness—the false sense of isolation that exists only in your
imagination....

 —Jeraldine Sanders

 Do the thing you fear and the death of fear is certain....	— Ralph W.
Emerson

 Fear is not created by the world around us, but in the mind....

 —Elizabeth Gawain

 What do you have to fear? Nothing. Whom do you have to fear? No one.
Why? Because whoever has joined forces with God obtains three great
privileges: omnipotence without power, intoxication without wine, and
life without death....	— Francis of Assisi

 Your greatest gift lies beyond the door named fear....	— Sufi saying

 Man imagines that it is death he fears, but what he fears is the
unfore- seen....What man fears is himself, not death....	— Antoine de
Saint-Exupery

 Fear is fatal....	— Harry Houdini

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Fear	*	1

 Happy is the man who has trampled underfoot his fears and can laugh at
the approach of all-subduing death....

 —Virgil

 If we have respect for all created things and treat all human beings
with love and respect....we are spared the need to live in fear or
tension....	— Babaji

 The best way to confront your fears is to stop avoiding the situation
you’re most afraid of....	— David D. Bums

 There are two kinds of people: those who are paralyzed by fear, and
those who are afraid but go ahead anyway....

 —Brooke Knapp

 Nothing in life is to be feared, only understood....	— Marie Curie

 The fear of death is merely an extension of the fear of the unknown....

 —Robert W. Buckingham

 Fear is the main source of superstition, and one of the main sources of
cruelty. To conquer fear is the beginning of wisdom....	— Bertrand
Russell

 To him who is in fear, everything rustles....	— Sophocles

 As children tremble and fear everything in the blind darkness, so we in
the light sometimes fear what is no more to be feared than the things
children in the dark hold in terror and imagine will come true.... —
Lucretius

 Fear exists wherever an other exists....

 —The Upanishads

 The only thing we have to fear is fear itself....	— Franklin D.
Roosevelt

 Fear is more disgraceful than failure....

 —Robert Schuller

 5 *	Fear

 Keep your fears to yourself, but share your courage with others....

 —Robert L. Stevenson

 If a man harbors any sort of fear, it....makes him landlord to a
ghost....

 —Lloyd Douglas

 Of all the liars in the world, sometimes the worst are your own
fears....

 —Rudyard Kipling

 From the body of one guilty deed, a thousand ghostly fears and haunting
thoughts proceed....

 —William Wordsworth

 There is nothing so bad and so dangerous in life as fear....

 —Jawaharlal Nehru

 Fear is a trick, a sham, a sleight of hand. It is illusion.... —
Emmanuel

 Fear comes from uncertainty. When we are absolutely certain, whether of
our worth or worthlessness, we are almost impervious to fear.... —
Eric Hoffer

 Find out what a person fears most and that is where he will develop
next....

 —Carl Jung

 The one permanent emotion of the inferior man is fear, fear of the
unknown, the complex, the inexplicable. What he wants beyond everything
else is safety....

 —Napoleon Bonaparte

 Fears are caused by a misuse of imagination....	— Herbert Casson

 To permit fear to possess you is suicidal and worse. A human full of
fear puts a blight on everything and everybody....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 Fear builds walls to bar the light....

 —Israel Baal Shem Tov

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Fear is an emotion. Emotions come
wholly from within, and have only the strength we allow them....

 —John M. Wilson

 The first duty of man is that of subduing fear....	— Thomas Carlyle

 Our greatest enemies are not wild beasts or deadly germs but fears that
paralyze throughout, poison the mind, and destroy character....

 —Ryllis G. Lynip

 Fear makes the wolf bigger than he is....

 —German proverb

 When we feel alone or isolated from God, it is ours to know that it was
not God who turned away but we through some form of petulance or
fear....

 —Margaret Stortz

 Fear is the sand in the machinery of life....	— E. Stanley Jones

 People who enjoy life and radiate their happiness fear nothing. Fear
never has led, and never will lead, a man victoriously in any phase of
life....

 —George M. Adams

 This is the most effective way of dealing with our fears—we must
begin to do the very thing we are afraid of doing. No man has ever
learned to swim by refusing to get wet....

 —Robert Moore

 Fear is an acid which is pumped into one’s atmosphere. It causes
mental, moral and spiritual asphyxiation, and sometimes death—death to
energy and all growth....	— Horace Fletcher

 Faith in yourself and faith in God are the key to the mastery of
fear....

 —Harold Sherman

 Fear is a greater evil than the evil itself....	— Francis de Sales

 Most of our fears are built around a sense of mortality, a sense that
physical death is the end of our existence....

 — H. Frederick Vogt

 Taking a new step, uttering a new word, is what people fear most....

 —Fydor Dostoyevsky

 If you do not come face to face with your fears, you will come to find
yourself always running away from them....	— Anonymous

 It is better to suffer the worst at once than to live in perpetual fear
of it....

 —Julius Caesar

 We fear our highest possibility (as well as our lowest one). We are
generally afraid to become that which we can glimpse in our most perfect
moments....	— Abraham Maslow

 The only fear you need have is the fear of not standing by the thing
you believe to be right. Take your stand and hold it, then come what
will....

 —Susan B. Anthony

 It is human nature to fear that which is not ordinary; it is godlike to
love the unordinary....	— Shantidasa

 He has not learned the lesson of life who does not every day surmount a
fear....	— Ralph W. Emerson

 Let nothing disturb you. Let nothing frighten you. Everything passes
away except God....	— Teresa of Avila

 The most dramatic and usually the most effective remedy for fear is
direct action....	— William Burnham

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Fear 	♦?	 1

 Fear makes strangers of people who should be friends....

 —Shirley MacLaine

 Fear and love can never be experienced at the same time. It is always
our choice as to which of these emotions we want....	— Gerald
Jampolsky

 Fear is confusion....Decisions made from fear will always bring more
confusion....	— Maya Sarada Devi

 Since fear is unreasonable, never try to reason with it. So called
“positive thinking” is no weapon against fear. Only positive faith
can rout the black menace of fear and give life a radiance....	—
Marion Hilliard

 Fear is the tax conscience pays to guilt....	— George Sewell

 You gain strength, courage and confidence by every experience in which
you really stop to look fear in the face....	— Eleanor Roosevelt

 Worry is a form of fear, and all forms of fear produce fatigue. A man
who has learned not to fear will find the fatigue of daily life
enormously diminished....

 —Bertrand Russell

 All my fears and cares are of this world; if there is another, an
honest man has nothing to fear from it....

 —Robert Bums

 What we fear we tend to develop an unreasonable hatred for—so we come
to hate and fear. This not only injures us psychologically and
aggravates world tensions, but through such negative concentration we
tend to attract the things which we fear....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 What governs man is the fear of truth....

 -—Henri F. Amiel

 7 *	Forgiveness

 Fear always springs from ignorance....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 He who fears being defeated is sure of defeat....	— Napoleon
Bonaparte

 &

  Forgiveness 

 N

 ever does the human soul appearso strong as when it forgives

 revenge, and dares forgive an injury....

 —Edwin H. Chapin

 Forgiveness is not for the forgiven but for the sake of the
forgiver....

 —Anonymous

 An apology is the superglue of life. It can repair just about
everything....

 —Lynn Johnston

 Forgiveness is the freedom to make wrong choices.... — Lewis B.
Smedes

 Forgiving someone is solid proof of your intent to live your life now,
while you have it....	— Ron Smothermon

 How unhappy is he who cannot forgive himself....	— Publilius Syrus

 Any man can seek revenge; it takes a king or prince to grant a
pardon....

 —Arthur J. Rehrat

 To be forgiven is not enough; we must put an end to the very need to be
forgiven....	— Bernadette Roberts

 To be really sorry for one’s errors is like opening the door of
Heaven....

 —Hazrat Inayat Khan

 Forgiveness is the grace that wipes away all thoughts of judgement....

 —Shantidasa

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Forgiveness

 When a deep injury is done us, we can never recover until we
forgive....

 —Alan Paton

 A man must learn to forgive himself....

 —Arthur D. Ficke

 When we forgive others for the wrongs done to us, it is not the human
heart that forgives. It is the divine quality revealed in the heart....
— Papa Ramdas

 It is hardest to forgive ourselves....

 —Judy Tatelbaum

 We cannot love unless we have accepted forgiveness, and the deeper our
experience of forgiveness is, the greater is our love.... — Paul
Tillich

 When Christ says, “Forgive your enemies,” it is not for the sake of
the enemy, but for one’s own sake that he says so....	— Oscar Wilde

 He is a very green hand at life who cannot forgive any mortal thing....

 —Robert L. Stevenson

 We pardon as long as we love....

 —Francois La Rochefoucauld

 Forgiveness is primarily for our own sake so that we no longer carry
the burden of resentment. But to forgive does not mean we allow
injustice again....	— JachKomfield

 Not to forgive is to be imprisoned by the past, by old grievances that
do not permit life to proceed with new business....	— Robin Casarjian

 We find it difficult to forgive only because we like our sense of
condemnation....As long as we can condemn another, we can feel superior
to him....

 —Maxwell Maltz

  168  ♦?	 Forgiveness 

 	

 Love is an act of endless forgiveness....

 —Peter Ustinov

 True forgiveness must be extended not onlyto others, but also to
ourself, and sometimes,in our limited understanding, to the Godwho we
mistakenly believe has singled usout for harsh treatment....

 —Elinor MacDonald

 When you go to bed at night, have foryour pillow three things—love,
hopeand forgiveness. And you will awakenin the morning with a song in
yourheart....	— Victor Hugo

 The narrow soul knows not the godlikeglory of forgiving....	—
Nicholas Rowe

 If you want to see the brave, look atthose who can forgive....

 — Bhagavad-Gita

 The effects of forgiveness are cumula-tive. As we forgive, we are
forgiven....

 —Katherine Gould

 If you haven’t forgiven yourself something, how can you forgive
others?...	— Dolores Huerta

 I have been all things unholy; if God can work through me, he can work
through anyone....	— Francis of Assisi

 Decide to forgive: For resentment is negative; resentment is poisonous;
resentment diminishes and devours the self....	— Robert Muller

 It is in vain for you to expect, it is impudent for you to ask of God
forgiveness for yourself if you refuse to exercise this forgiving temper
to others....	— Benjamin Hoadly

 Without forgiveness life is governed by....an endless cycle of
resentment and retaliation....	— Robert Assagioli

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Forgiveness

 It is easier to forgive an enemy than toforgive a friend.... —
William Blake

 Humanity is never so beautiful as prayingfor forgiveness, or else
forgiving another....

 —Jean Paul Richter

 A  forgiving spirit is by its very nature aunifying force. It can
remove thebarriers of separation between peoplesand nations and weld
them together inpeace and goodwill; something thatlegislation with the
help of armies cannever accomplish....	— Charles R. Loss

 Forgiveness is another word for lettinggo....	— Matthew Fox

 Those who do not forgive others burnthe bridge over which they must
pass,for everyone has need to be forgiven....

 —Anonymous

 Forgiveness saves the expense of anger,the cost of hatred....	—
Hannah More

 It is more noble to forgive than torevenge an injury....

 —Benjamin Franklin

 Forgiveness is eminently a divine vir-

 tue. The moment the forgiving natureenters into your life, depend on
it: Godhas revealed Himself in you....

 —Papa Ramdas

 He who forgives, ends the quarrel....

 —African proverb

 To be wronged is nothing unless youcontinue to remember it....

 —Confucius

 To err is human; to forgive, divine....

 —Alexander Pope

 We must be willing to forgive without limit even as God forgives;
otherwise we cannot be forgiven....

 —Nels F. S. Ferre

 169 *	Forgiveness

 	

 Little vicious minds abound with angerand revenge, and are incapable
offeeling the pleasure of forgiving theirenemies....	— Philip
Chesterfield

 To forgive our enemies, yet hope thatGod will punish them, is not to
forgiveenough....	— Thomas Browne

 In pardoning we rise above those whoinsult us....	— Napoleon
Bonaparte

 “I can forgive, but I cannot forget,” isonly another way of saying,
“I will notforgive.”...	— Henry W. Beecher

 There is no need for God to forgive, forGod has never held man in
account.God has never judged man....

 —Frater Achad

 In order to learn forgiveness, man mustfirst learn tolerance....

 —Hazrat Inayat Khan

 The unforgiving mind sees itself asinnocent and others as guilty. It
thriveson conflict and on being right, and itsees inner peace as its
enemy. Itperceives everything as separate....

 —Gerald Jampolsky

 Forgiveness is eternal and everavailable. What a load is dropped
fromthe shoulders of personal responsi-bility, when we realize that the
EternalMind holds naught against anybody....

 —Ernest Holmes

 Forgive others. Do it not only for theirsake, but for your own. If you
don’t,you will feel within you a nauseatingresentment, destroying you
fromwithin....	— Maxwell Maltz

 In this life, if you have anything topardon, pardon quickly. Slow
forgive-ness is little better than no forgive-ness....	— Arthur W.
Pinero

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Forgiveness	*	170	*	Forgiveness

   	

 If you forgive others their failings, your heavenly Father will forgive
yours; but if you do not forgive others, your Father will not forgive
your failings either....	— Jesus

 Only the brave know how to forgive. A coward never forgives. It is not
his nature....	— Robert Muller

 To understand eveiything means to forgive everything....	— French
proverb

 Here is a mental treatment guaranteed to cure every ill that flesh is
heir to: sit for half an hour every night and mentally forgive everyone
against whom you have any ill will or antipathy. ...	— Charles
Fillmore

 The best way to get even is to forget....

 —Anonymous

 He who has not forgiven an enemy has not yet tasted one of the most
sublime enjoyments of life.... — John K. Lavater

 You must forgive those who transgress against you before you can look
to forgiveness from God.... — The Talmud

 Be the first to forgive, to smile and take the first step, and you will
see happiness bloom....Be always the first. Do not wait for others to
forgive, for by forgiving, you become the master of fate, the fashioner
of life, the doer of miracles. To forgive is the highest, most beautiful
form of love. In return you will receive untold peace and happiness....
— Robert Muller

 Forgiving ourselves dissolves all kinds of unhealthy attitudes—about
ourselves and about the other. We are released from brutal self-downing
when we stop criticizing others....	— Marsha Sinetar

 In heaven the only art of living is forgetting and forgiving....

 —William Blake

 Forgive, forget. Bear with the faults of others as you would have them
bear with yours. Be patient and understanding. Life is too short to be
vengeful or malicious....

 —Phillips Brooks

 The remedy for wrongs is to forget them....	— Publilius Syrus

 Somehow we’ve come to believe that forgiveness is hard, a
conflict-ridden challenge that we will have to fight to do.... What a
joke we play on ourselves! The joke is that we are so slow in realizing
that forgiveness is anything but a heavy, difficult step to take.
Instead, it’s light-hearted, joyful, simple, and, most of all, fun!...

 —Ruth Hanna

 There is no condition for forgiveness....

 —Paul Tillich

 If anyone will take these two words to heart and use them for his own
guidance, he will be almost without sin and will lead a very peaceful
life. These words are bear and forbear....

 —Epictetus

 On the wings of forgiveness is carried all other wisdom....	— Honey
J. Rubin

 Forgiveness does not originate from a position of weakness, but is a
consequence of strength....

 —Anonymous

 There is no limit to which you can forgive those who have wronged
you....

 —Papa Ramdas

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Freedom

 171

 Freedom

  M 

  Freedom 

 Y

 ou can’t separate peace fromfreedom because no one can be

 at peace unless he has freedom....

 —Malcolm X

 You are already free. Only you have to know and realize this truth....

 —Sivananda

 Freedom is not a goal, it is the supreme awareness of who you
are....Freedom is found once all concepts are thrown away, and one
stands alone in the present moment to find the depth of meaning inherent
in their spirit....

 —A Spiritual Warrior

 You cannot parcel out freedom in pieces because freedom is all or
nothing....	— Tertullian

 Free will is the power of choosing good and evil....	— Origen

 If the bird does like its cage, and does like its sugar, and will not
leave it, why keep the door so very carefully shut?...

 —Olive Schreiner

 When you enslave someone—you are enslaved....	— Lou ise Nevelson

 Freedom is not for the timid....

 —Vijaya L. Pandit

 Freedom is not a philosophy, nor is it an idea—it is a stirring of
conscience that causes us to utter, at certain moments, one of two
monosyllables: Yes or No....	— Octavio Paz

 be

 Freedom means the right to different, the right to be oneself....

 —Ira Eisenstein

 <0?

 The only freedom which deserves thename is that of pursuing our own
goodin our own way, so long as we do notattempt to deprive others of
theirs, orimpede their efforts to obtain it....

 —John S. Mill

 Freedom can only come from God, andthat can take place only as an
activitywithin your own consciousness....

 —Joel Goldsmith

 Remember that to change your mindand follow him who sets you right is
tobe none the less free than you werebefore....	— Marcus Aurelius

 The invisible chains are alwaysstronger than the visible ones....

 —Anonymous

 Do you think you are not free? You arefree, but you do not know that
you arefree—and it is your not knowing thatyou are free that is your
limitation andyour imprisonment. Realize yourfreedom and you are
free....

 —Vilayat I. Khan

 A man’s only freedom is his freedom todeal with his impressions, to
acceptone, to reject another....	— Epictetus

 Wherever the spirit of God is, there isfreedom....	— Paul of Tarsus

 Freedom is a new religion....

 —Heinrich Heine

 Freedom and forgiveness are indis-solubly linked. Not to forgive is to
be atwar with ourselves, for we are freedaccording to our capacity to
forgive....

 —Darwin Gross

 In the last analysis, our only freedom isthe freedom to discipline
ourselves....

 —Bernard M. Baruch

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Freedom 	♦?	 172	*	Freedom

  	

 Freedom: there’s none unless you know the Self. But if you know the
truth, then you are free.... — The Upanishads

 Freedom is freedom from worry. Having realized that you cannot
influence results, pay no attention to your desires and fears. Let them
come and go....	— Nisargadatta

 Men are freest when they are most unconscious of freedom....

 —David H. Lawrence

 Most people do not wish to be free. They would prefer to moan and chafe
about how impossible it is to give up their various enslavements to
possessions, food, drink, smoking, and so forth. It is not that they
can’t give them up—they really don’t want to give them up....	—
Peace Pilgrim

 No one is free who is a slave to the flesh....	— Seneca

 We find freedom when we find God; we lose it when we lose Him....

 —Paul E. Sherer

 God’s service spells freedom....

 —Judah Halevi

 One has to be on guard against the misunderstanding of the idea of
freedom by many who....seem to think it means the freedom to do what one
likes, and especially the freedom to be licentious. Real freedom is very
different from this and comes from a higher level....	— D. T. Suzuki

 At the end of the way is freedom. Till then, patience....	— Gautama
Buddha

 There are two freedoms: the false, where a man is free to do what he
likes; the true, where a man is free to do what he ought....	— Charles
Kingsley

 But what is freedom? Rightly understood, a universal license to be
good....

 —Hartly Coleridge

 Man is really free only in God, the source of his freedom....

 —Sherwood Eddy

 Freedom is just another word for nothing left to lose....	— Janis
Joplin

 No man is free until he is free at the center. When he lets go there,
he is free indeed. When the self is renounced, then one stands utterly
disillusioned, apart, asking for nothing....If anything comes to him, it
is all sheer gain. Then life becomes one constant surprise....

 — E. Stanley Jones

 There are no galley slaves in the royal vessel of love—every man
works his oar voluntarily....	— Jean P. Camus

 Man is condemned to be free; because once thrown into the world, he is
responsible for everything he does....

 — Jean-Paul Sartre

 None are more hopelessly enslaved than those who falsely believe they
are free....	— Johann W. Goethe

 Our freedom can be measured by the amount of things we can walk away
from...	— Vernon Howard

 You have freedom to do right or wrong. Clearly you can go astray, for
the road is not fenced. You can make mistakes, you can fall into sin....

 —Charles Eliot

 A  human being is always a prisoner of something. The only freedom is
within ourselves....	— Robert Mueller

 You have freedom when you’re easy in the harness....	— Robert Frost

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065    Freedom 	♦?	 1 

   * Everybody has the right to freedom without interference from anyone
else....Nobody has the power to judge what is good for another
person’s conscience....	— Paul Twitchell

 You are only free when you know the truth and care not that other
people know that you know.... — Anonymous

 There can be no freedom without the freedom to fail....	— EricHoffer

 Liberty is not without, but within. It is in the heart, or it does not
exist. No one is free from external constraint. But man may remain free
in the midst of the severest privations....

 —Paul Toumier

 Those who deny freedom to others deserve it not for themselves....

 —Abraham Lincoln

 The price of freedom is responsibility, but it is a bargain, because
freedom is priceless....	— Hugh Downs

 To enjoy freedom we have to control ourselves....	— Virginia Woolf

 Who, then, is free? The wise man who commands his passions, who fears
not want, nor death, nor chains, firmly resisting his appetites and
despising the honors of the world, who relies wholly on himself....	—
Horace

 Freedom comes from human beings, rather than from laws and
institutions....	— Clarence Darrow

 To be free from everything is to be— nothing. Only nothing is quite
free, and freedom is abstract nothingness....

 — F. H. Bradley

 You are your own jailer....

 —Farid Attar

 3 *	Freedom

 No man is free who cannot command himself; liberty exists in proportion
to wholesome restraint....

 —Daniel Webster

 He only has freedom who ideally loves freedom himself and is glad to
extend it to others. He who cares to have slaves must chain himself to
them. He who builds walls to create exclusion for others, builds walls
across his own freedom....	— Rabindranath Tagore

 Freedom is not truly freedom while constraint can still limit it....

 —Karlfried G. Durckheim

 Freedom is the absolute right of all....to seek permission for their
action only from their own conscience and reason....	— Mikhail A.
Bakunin

 Every virtuous man is free....

 —Philo

 Freedom is not worth having if it does not connote freedom to err....

 —Mohandas Gandhi

 As long as you keep a person down, some part of you has to be down to
hold him down, so it means you cannot soar as you might otherwise....

 —Marian Anderson

 Freedom is nothing but a chance to be better....	— Albert Camus

 The more I understand about myself, the more I understand about the
world. The more I understand about my world, the freer I am from it....

 —Donald Curtis

 Freedom is a mirage on the desert. If you reach the place it seemed to
be, you will find it dry, because being free means that you are no
longer needed or loved by others....

 —Josephine Lowman

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Freedom

 174

 Freedom

 Freedom is a need of the soul, and nothing else. It is a striving
toward God, that the soul strives continually after a condition of
freedom....

 —Whittaker Chambers

 Perfect freedom is reserved for that man who lives by his own work and
in that work does what he wants to do....

 — R. G. Collingwood

 Freedom is recreated year by year in hearts wide open on the Godward
side....	— Janies Russell Lowell

 God wills us to be free....He wills not only that we should be free in
power, but that we should be free in its exercise....	— Jacques
Bossuet

 Anything you strive to hold captive will hold you captive and if you
desire freedom you must give freedom....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 No man is free who is not master of himself....Is freedom anything else
than the power of living as we choose?...

 —Epictetus

 When we are a free and open channel for Divine provision to flow
through us to others, then abundance flows to us, and the freer we
become the more freely does God’s bounty come....

 —Henry T. Hamblin

 Most people are afraid of freedom because it means they must be
prepared to stand or fall entirely by their own decisions....	— Ronald
Beesley

 The worst thing about slavery is that eventually the slaves get to like
it....

 —Aristotle

 The freer you feel yourself in the presence of another, the more free
he is....	— John K. Lavater

 If a person could understand all the horror of the lives of ordinary
people who are turning round in a circle of insignificant
interests....if they could understand what they are losing, they would
understand that there can only be one thing serious—to escape the
general law, to be free....

 —George I. Gurdjieff

 Your freedom to choose a positive attitude is the treasure God will let
no one take from you....	— Robert Schuller

 Let me not be tied down to property or praise and I shall be free. Free
from the nagging ache of envy. Free from the hurts of resentment. Free
to love all and forgive all. Free to do and say what is right,
regardless of the unpopularity. Free to wander everywhere as inspiration
guides me....	— Francis of Assisi

 Freedom is the power to create out of nothing, the power of the spirit
to create out of itself....

 —Nikolay Berdyayev

 What is freedom? It means not being a slave to any circumstance, to any
restraint, to any chance.... — Seneca

 Nearly all men are slaves....because of the inability to say the word
“No.” To be able to speak that word and to live alone, are the two
means to preserve one’s freedom.... — Sebastien Chamfort

 Man is free at the moment he wishes to be....	— Voltaire

 The path of freedom is blocked much more by those who wish to obey than
by those who wish to command....

 —M  D. Petre

 Liberty is the one thing you can’t have unless you give it to
others....

 —William A. White

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890    Freedom 

 Freedom is only an opportunity, it isnot in itself a goal. It simply
gives youthe opportunity to do whatever youwant....an opportunity to
find adefinition for yourself....	— Osho

 Freedom is what you do with what’s beendone to you....	— Jean-Paul
Sartre

 You don’t have to reconstruct the socialorder; you don’t have to
overpower thevillains; you don’t have to reeducatethe world....All you
have to do is to useyour sovereign power of choice torelease yourself
from those who wouldkeep you in bondage....

 —Harry Browne

 What do you suppose will satisfy thesoul, except to walk free and own
nosuperior....	— Walt Whitman

 Man never fastened one end of a chainaround the neck of his brother,
thatGod did not fasten the other end roundthe neck of the oppressor....

 —Alphonse de Lamartine

 Freedom is the right to choose: theright to create for yourself
thealternatives of choice. Without thepossibility of choice and the
exercise of

 choice, a man is not a man but amember, an instrument, a thing....

 —Archibald MacLeish

 No one can grant freedom to anyone else....	— Marilyn Ferguson

 A  man who is really free never feels harshness; he is never disturbed
by outer conditions....	— Paramananda

 Freedom will cost you the mask you have on, the mask that feels so
comfortable and is so hard to shed off, not because it fits so well but
because you have been wearing it so long....

 —Florinda Donner

 175 *	Friendship

 &

  Friendship 

 T

 he firmest friendships have beenformed in mutual adversity, as

 iron is most strongly united with thefiercest flame.... — Charles C.
Colton

 A  friend is one who knows you as you are, understands where you’ve
been, accepts who you’ve become, and still gently invites you to
grow....

 —Anonymous

 To let friendship die away by negligence and silence is certainly not
wise. It is voluntarily to throw away one of the greatest comforts of
this weary pilgrimage.... — Samuel Johnson

 Be a friend to thyself, and others will be so too....	— Thomas Fuller

 Real friendship is exchanging secrets, rolling over like a puppy and
exposing the soft underbelly....	— Ada ir Lara

 Meetings and partings, handclasps and farewells, loving nearness and
grieving tears—these are the lot of friendship on earth....	— Anna
Brown Lindsay

 The wise man, the true friend, the finished character we seek
everywhere and only find in fragments....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 We can be our own best friends or we can be our own worst enemies....

 —Ralph W. Trine

 Two may talk together under the same roof for many years, yet never
really meet; and two others at first speech are old friends....	— Mary
Catherwood

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Friendship

 I have discovered the ultimate goal in life is to be your own best
friend—and only after you have befriended yourself, can you become a
friend to others....	— Shantidasa

 Taking friendship for granted is one of the surest ways of ending them.
Unless nourished, they tend to wither and die. Unless we earnestly
desire its continuance we should never start a friendship any more than
we would a love affair....

 —Alice H. Rice

 Friendship inspires and enriches the life of those who come
together....

 —Vimala Thakar

 A  true friend is more to be esteemed than kinfolk....	— Cicero

 All people in the world are not friends to all other people. Some
people who pose as friends prove to be no friends at all in the hour of
need. But he who sees the Self in all, has no desires of his own
whatsoever, is the friend of all, at all times, and in all
circumstances....

 —Tapovan Maharaj

 Friendship is a sheltering tree....

 —Samuel T. Coleridge

 It is easy enough to be friendly to one’s friends. But to befriend
the one who regards himself as your enemy is the quintessence of all
religion. The other is merely business....

 —Mohandas Gandhi

 Wishing to be friends is quick work, but friendship is a slow ripening
fruit....	— Aristotle

 Friendship is almost always the union of a part of one mind with a part
of another; people are friends in spots....

 —George Santayana

 176  ♦?	 Friendship

 No man can be called friendless when he has God and the companionship
of books....	 —Elizabeth B. Browning

 Life has no blessing like a prudent friend....	— Euripides

 If you have just one or two spiritual friends with whom you can share
your highest aspirations, you should consider yourself richly
blessed....

 —Kriyananda

 Bad company is loss, and good company is gain....In company with the
wind the dust flies heavenward; if it joins water, it becomes mud and
sinks....	— Tulsi Das

 Tell me what company you keep, and I’ll tell you who you are.... —
Cervantes

 There is no separateness between two genuine friends.... —
Nisargadatta

 When two people relate to each other authentically and humanly, God is
the electricity that surges between them....

 —Martin Buber

 If you make friends with people who are without character, your own
character will tarnish as well....

 —Anonymous

 A  friend cannot not be known in prosperity....	— Ecclesiastes

 We need old friends to help us grow old and new friends to help us stay
young....	— Letty Cottin Pogrebin

 He who is his own friend, is a friend to all....	— Seneca

 Fate chooses your relations, you choose your friends....	— Abbey J.
Delille

 A  friend is a gift you give yourself....

 —Robert L. Stevenson

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Friendship 	♦?	 1

 The use of friendship for selfish motive is like mixing bitter poison
with sweet rose syrup....	— Hazrat Inayat Khan

 If there is any one secret of success, it lies in the ability to get
the other person’s point of view and see things from his angle as well
as your own....

 —Henry Ford

 You can make more friends in two months by becoming interested in other
people than you can in two years by trying to get other people
interested in you....	— Dale Carnegie

 No man is happier on this earth than he who has a friend with whom he
can talk, with whom he can live, with whom he can have a friendly
chat....

 —Hitopadesa

 Friendship is equality.... — Pythagoras

 There can be no friendship where there is no freedom. Friendship loves
Free Air; and will not be forced in straight and narrow enclosures....

 —William Penn

 The only way to have a friend is to be one....	— Ralph W. Emerson

 A friend is, as it were, a second self....

 —Cicero

 Radiate friendship and it will be returned tenfold....

 —Henry P. Davidson

 Of all the things which wisdom provides to make life entirely happy,
much the greatest is the possession of friendship....	— Epicurus

 In the degree that we become friends to the highest and best within us,
do we become friends to all....

 —Ralph W. Trine

 7 *	Friendship

 A  word, a smile, and the stranger at your elbow may become an
interesting friend. All through life we deny ourselves stimulating
fellowship because we are too proud or too afraid to unbend....	— D.
C. Peattie

 Friendships are fragile things, and require as much care in handling as
any other fragile and precious thing....

 —Randolph S. Bourne

 A  true friend is the gift of God, and he only who made hearts can
untie them....	— Robert South

 We cannot tell the precise moment when friendship is formed. As in
filling a vessel drop by drop, there is at last a drop which makes it
run over; so in a series of kindnesses there is at last one which makes
the heart run over....

 —James Boswell

 True friendship comes when silence between two people is
comfortable....

 —Dave T. Gentry

 Friendship is one mind within two bodies....	— Aristotle

 No friendship can cross the path of our destiny without leaving some
mark on it forever....	— Francois Mauriac

 Two persons cannot long be friends if they cannot forgive each
other’s little failings....	— Jean La Bruyere

 All men have their frailties; and whoever looks for a friend without
imperfections will never find what he seeks. We love ourselves
notwithstanding our faults, and we ought to love our friends in like
manner....

 —Cyrus the Great

 Friendship is seldom lasting but between equals....	— Samuel Johnson

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Friendship 	♦?	 1

 Friendship that flows from the heart cannot be frozen by adversity, as
the water that flows from the spring cannot congeal in winter.... 
—James F. Cooper

 There is a magnet in your heart that will attract true friends. That
magnet is unselfishness, thinking of others first....

 —Paramahansa Yogananda

 Be slow to fall into friendship; but when thou art in, continue firm
and constant....	— Socrates

 Companionship may be one of the most effective ways of staying off
treadmills. Our friends are often the ones who remind us when we’ve
gone astray....	— Melvyn Kinder

 Old friends are best. King James used to call for his old shoes; they
were easiest on his feet....	— John Selden

 Hospitality consists of a little fire, a little food, and immense
quiet....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 The reward of friendship is itself. The man who hopes for anything else
does not understand what true friendship is....	— Alfred ofAievaubc

 Friendship is to feel as one while remaining two....	— Ann S.
Swetchine

 I used to think that friendship meant happiness: I have learned that it
means discipline. Seek how we may, we shall never find a friend without
faults, imperfections, traits and ways that vex, grieve, annoy us.
Strive as we will, we ourselves can never fully fulfill the ideal of us
that is in our friend’s mind: we inevitably come short of it....

 —Anna Brown Lindsay

 The essence of true friendship is to make allowance for another’s
little lapses....	-— David Storey

 8  ♦?	 Friendship

 Friendship with oneself is all-important, because without it one cannot
be friends with anyone else in the world....

 —Eleanor Roosevelt

 Wise company will make you also wise; from vicious friends you cannot
but gather vice....	— Sufi saying

 Be friends with all men, but in your thoughts remain alone....

 —Isaac of Syria

 When two people become friends they establish between themselves a
relation of equality. There is and can be no functional subservience to
the other....

 —John Uacmurray

 A  friend is a person with whom you dare to be yourself....	— Frank
Crane

 You cannot take more from a friendship than you are willing to put back
into it....	— Anonymous

 A real friend is one who walks in when the rest of the world walks
out....

 —Walter Winchell

 Our chief want in life is somebody who can make us do what we can. This
is the service of a friend....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 It is difficult to say who does you the most mischief, enemies with the
worst intentions, or friends with the best....

 —Edward Bulwer-Lytton

 False friends are like a shadow, keeping close to us while we walk in
the sunshine, but leaving us the instant we cross into the shade....

 —Christian Bovee

 No one is your real friend except your virtues....	— Muni Swamy

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Friendship	*	1

 Friendship is so much more than a word, a handshake, and a smile.
It’s the ability to see the inner beauty in someone....	— Vonda K.
Van Dyke

 The company of just and righteous men is better than wealth and a rich
estate....	— Euripides

 We love ourselves notwithstanding our faults, and we ought to love our
friends in like manner....	— Cyrus the Great

 Most friendships worth their salt are those nourished in human
struggle....

 —Robert Veninga

 Friendships are those fruits gathered from trees planted in the rich
soil of love, and nurtured with tender care and understanding. These
trees are never subjected to drought....

 —Alma L. Weixelbaum

 Nothing gives such a blow to friendship as detecting another in an
untruth. It strikes at the root of our confidence ever after....	—
William Hazlitt

 A  friend to everyone is often a friend to nobody; or else, in his
simplicity, he robs his family to help strangers, and so becomes brother
to a beggar....

 —Charles H. Spurgeon

 Friendship is love minus sex and plus reason....	— Mason Cooley

 So-called friends are in reality enemies. You will not find in this
whole universe a single friend without egotism. Your true friend in
need, He who is sincerely attached to you, is God, who lives within your
heart....	— Sivananda

 Friendships require commitment if they are to grow....	— John
Bradshaw

 9 *	Genius

 The true friend seeks to give, not to take; to help, not to be helped;
to minister, not to be ministered unto....

 —William Rader

 There can be no friendship without confidence, and no confidence
without integrity....	— Samuel Johnson

 There is no possession more valuable than a good and faithful
friend....

 —Socrates

 *

  Genius 

 A

 n expert is one who does nothave to think. He knows....

 —Frank L. Wright

 Genius is no more than childhood recaptured at will....

 —Charles Baudelaire

 There is no great genius without some touch of madness....	— Seneca

 Thousands of geniuses live and die undiscovered—either by themselves
or by others....	— Mark Twain

 Genius is only the power of making continuous efforts....	— Elbert
Hubbard

 Genius springs from the soul that dares to drink at the fountains of
inspiration in the garden of God....

 —Fenwick Holmes

 Genius....means little more than the faculty of perceiving in an
unhabitual way....	— William James

 The great secret of genius is to carry the spirit of the child into old
age....

 —Thomas Huxley

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Genius	*	180

  •***•

 The first and last thing which is required for genius is the love of
truth....	— Johann W. Goethe

 Genius finds its own road, and carries its own lamp....	— Robert A.
Willmott

 Everyone is born a genius, but the process of living de-geniuses
them....

 —Buckminster Fuller

 Genius is only a superior power of seeing....	— John Ruskin

 A  man of genius makes no mistakes. His errors are volitional and are
the portals of discovery....	— James Joyce

 Genius, that power which dazzles mortal eyes, is oft but perseverance
in disguise....	 —Henry	Austin

 Genius must be born; it can never be taught....	— John Dryden

 When the true genius appears in the world, you may know him by this
sign, that the dunces are all in confederacy against him....	—
Jonathan Swift

 Genius does what it must, and talent does what it can....

 —Edward Bulwer-Lytton

 That which we call genius has a great deal to do with courage and
daring, a great deal to do with nerve....unexplored spaces do not
frighten them as much as they frighten those around them. This is one of
the secrets of their power....

 —Nathaniel Branden

 Genius is gold in the mine, talent is the miner who works and brings it
out....

 —Lady Blessington

 Genius on earth is God giving Himself. Whenever a masterpiece appears,
a distribution of God is taking place....

 —Victor Hugo

  Genius 

 The highest genius is willingness and ability to do hard work....

 —Robert S. MacArthur

 Genius is infinite painstaking....

 —Henry W. Longfellow

 Geniuses reach their goal with one step, whereas common minds must be
led to it through a long row of object-ives....	— Moses Mendelssohn

 One of the strongest characteristics of genius is the power of lighting
its own fire....	— John Foster

 Common sense is genius in home- spun....	— Alfred N. Whitehead

 A  genius is one who stands at both ends of a perspective....	—
Elbert Hubbard

 Genius learns only from itself, talent chiefly from others. Genius
learns from nature, from its own nature; talent learns from art.... —
Arnold Schoenberg

 Genius is the energy which collects, combines, amplifies, and
animates....

 —Samuel Johnson

 With the stones we cast at them, geniuses build new roads for us....

 —Paul Eldridge

 Genius is the ability to reduce the complicated to the simple....

 — C. W. Ceran

 Good sense travels on well-worn paths; genius, never. And that is why
the crowd, not altogether without reason, is so ready to treat great men
as lunatics....	— Cesare Lombroso

 Mediocrity is self-inflicted. Genius is self-bestowed....	— Walter
Russell

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Genius	*	1

 Constant effort and frequent mistakes are the stepping-stones of
genius....

 —Elbert Hubbard

 The essence of genius is to know what to overlook....	— William James

 Genius is an infinite capacity for taking pains....	— Jane Hopkins

 The greatest genius will not be worth much if he pretends to draw
exclusively from his own resources....

 —Johann W. Goethe

 What is called genius is the abundance of life or health.... — Henry
D. Thoreau

 To believe your own thought; to believe that what is true for you in
your private heart is true for all men—this is genius....	— Ralph W.
Emerson

 Patience is a necessary ingredient of genius....	— Benjamin Disraeli

 Genius is one percent inspiration and ninety-nine percent
perspiration....

 —Thomas Edison

 Genius is patience....

 —Georges L. Buff on

 &

  Giving 

 M

 en of noblest dispositions thinkthemselves happiest when oth-

 ers share their happiness with them....

 —William Duncan

 The generous man is always just, and the just who is always generous,
may, unannounced, approach the throne of heaven....	— John K. Lavater

 1 *	Giving

 Generosity lies less in giving much than in giving at the right
moment....

 -—Jean La Bruyere

 Have no desire to acquire more (with the thought that you can have more
to give), what you have is sufficient; the amount of money given is of
no importance, the amount of love given is....	— A Spiritual Warrior

 God loves a cheerful giver. She gives most who gives with joy....

 —Mother Teresa

 It is one of the beautiful compensations of this life that no one can
sincerely try to help another without helping himself....	— Charles D.
Warner

 The hoarder, who is anxiously worried about losing something, is,
psychologically speaking, the poor impoverished man, regardless of how
much he has. Whoever is capable of giving of himself is rich....	—
Erich Fromn

 The best thing to give your enemy is forgiveness; to an opponent,
tolerance; to a friend, your heart; to your child, a good example; to
your father, deference; to your mother, conduct that will make her proud
of you; to your self, respect; to all men, charity....

 —Sivananda

 You must give if you want to receive. Let the center of your being be
one of giving, giving, giving. You can’t give too much, and you will
discover you cannot give without receiving....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 Blessed are those who can give without remembering and take without
forgetting....	— Melvin Schleeds

 There is no happiness in having or in getting, but only in giving....

 —Henry Drummond

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Giving 	♦?	 1

 You can’t give what you haven’t got....

 —Latin proverb

 Supply is not getting; supply is giving. The bread that you cast upon
the water is the bread that comes back to you....

 —Joel Goldsmith

 It is in giving oneself that one receives....	— Francis of Assisi

 Be generous, not wasteful; give, not indiscriminately.... —
Mahabharata

 Your giving is sacred and therefore should be kept secret. It is wise
to give quietly with no strings attached....

 —Catherine Ponder

 Give, and it shall be given unto you, good measure, pressed down....and
running over....For with the same measure you give to others it shall be
measured to you again....	— Jesus

 The very act of giving, with its apparent loss, tends to throw us upon
Spirit and makes us depend upon God for supply....	— Henry T. Hamblin

 Man only keeps that which he gives away....	— Ancient proverb

 Money giving is a very good criterion of a person’s mental health.
Generous people are rarely mentally ill people....

 —Karl Menninger

 Generosity gives help rather than advice....

 —Luc de Clapiers Vauvenargues

 Giving begins with an open heart and ends with an open hand....

 —Anonymous

 Unhappiness is the hunger to get; happiness is the hunger to give....

 —William G. Jordan

 2 *	Giving

 The person who gives of himself and his substance, no matter how
little, opens the door for life to pour in, not only compensating him
for his gift, but increasing the gift. The more one gives the more that
a person is able to receive....	— Jack Addington

 We can only give what we have in our purse....	— Henri F. Amiel

 The wise man does not lay up his treasures. The more he gives to
others, the more he has for his own....

 — Lao-tzu

 Rings and jewels are not gifts, but apologies for gifts. The only gift
is a portion of thyself....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 To receive more, we must give out what we receive....For it is by
giving that we set in operation the unfailing law of measure for
measure. With no thought of receiving, it is impossible to avoid
receiving, for the abundance you have given is returned to you in
fulfillment of the law....	— Baird Spalding

 Cast thy bread upon the waters; for thou shall find it after many
days....

 —Old Testament

 I have found that there is a tremendous joy in giving....	— William
Black

 Love gives for the joy of giving, attachment gives for the return that
may come....	— Paramananda

 The more you love, the more you’ll find that life is good and friends
are kind, for only what we give away enriches us from day to day....

 —Helen Steiner Rice

 Examples are few of men ruined by giving....	— Christian Bovee

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Giving

 Giving of ourselves for the betterment of the less fortunate is the
cheapest and most effective therapy available today. To deny ourselves
the joy of giving is to deny our basic needs....

 —John C. Cornelius

 Most of the joy of living comes out of true giving—giving without
strings attached....	— Gary Emery

 You can give of your talent, you can give of your possessions, or you
can give of yourself. For God’s sake, give something....	— Cleveland
Amory

 The real test of a man is not: How much has he got? The measure of a
man is: How much does he give that he can afford to give....	— Fred
Van Amburgh

 Trees bend low with ripened fruit; clouds hang down with gentle rain;
Noble men bow graciously. This is the way of generous things.... —
Bhartrihari

 When you give something to your brother, to your sister, you lose
nothing. You gain whenever your brother and sister gain because your
brother and sister are also your own Self....	— Shantidasa

 Every gift, though it be small, is in reality great if given with
affection....

 —Pindar

 Almost always the most indigent are the most generous....

 —Leszezynski Stanislaw

 In giving, the purpose is not to fulfill another person’s expected
desires, but to share what is in our capacity, and give it with love and
joy....

 —A Spiritual Warrior

 The giver is greater than the gift....

 —Eknath Easwaran

 183 *	Giving

 •xp? 	

 The soul lives forever by giving, notreceiving. This is the grand
paradox.You get most by giving most. Con-versely, by receiving much
youimpoverish yourself. By selfishaccumulation you become bankrupt....

 —Julian P. Johnson

 Our true acquisitions lie only in ourcharities; we gain only as we
give....

 —William Simms

 If you are not generous with a meagerincome, you will never be
generouswith abundance....	— Harold Nye

 The gift is most of the giver and comesback most to him....	— Walt
Whitman

 Fill yourselves first and then only willyou be able to give to
others....

 —Augustine

 The truly generous is the truly wise,and he who loves not others,
livesunblest....	— Heiiry Home

 It is more blessed to give than toreceive....	— Paul of Tarsus

 God has the power to give and to takeaway; but if anything is taken
away it isonly to make room for something farbetter....	— Henry T.
Hamblin

 In the sphere of material things, givingmeans being rich. Not he who
hasmuch is rich, but he who gives much....

 —Erich Fromm

 (To) take something from yourself, to give to another, that is humane
and gentle and never takes away as much comfort as it brings.... —
Thomas More

 In this world it is not what we take up, but what we give up, that
makes us rich....	— Henry W. Beecher

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Giving	*	184

 We get what we give, no more, no less, and let us remember that every
time we put up a fence we shut out more than we shut in....

 —John H. Randall

 We should give as we would receive, cheerfully, quickly, and without
hesitation; for there is no grace in a gift that sticks to the
fingers....	— Seneca

 He who gives freely is apt to grow richer in heart, though he grows
poorer in purse...	— George H. Hepworth

 You can’t live a perfect day without doing something for someone who
will never be able to repay you....

 —John Wooden

 The manner of giving is worth more than the gift....	— Pierre
Corneille

 A  bit of fragrance always clings to the hand that gives you roses....

 —Chinese proverb

 The generous heart is the happy heart....	— Ida S. Taylor

 It is not what we give, but what we share, for the gift without the
giver is bare....	— James Russell Lowell

 We must possess love before we can give....	— Mother Teresa

 They who scatter with one hand, gather with two, not always in coin,
but in kind. Nothing multiplies so much as kindness....	— -John Wray

 He gives little who gives with a frown; he gives much who gives little
with a smile....	— The Talmud

 When I give, I give myself....

 —Walt Whitman

 Giving

 He that gives all, though but little, gives much, because God looks not
at the quantity of the gift, but to the quality of the givers....	—
Francis Quarles

 Do not limit what you give, limit what you take....	— Napoleon Hill

 Give to the world the best you have and the best will come back to
you....

 —Anonymous

 Giving requires good sense....

 —Ovid

 We enjoy thoroughly only the pleasure that we give....	— Alexandre
Dumas

 Giving is most blessed and most acceptable when the donor remains
completely anonymous....

 —Maimonides

 You do not have to be rich to be generous. If you have the spirit of
true generosity, a pauper can give like a prince....	 —Corinne U.
Wells

 Blessed are they who give without expecting even thanks in return, for
they shall be abundantly rewarded....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 To receive everything, one must open one’s hands and give....

 —Taisen Deshimaru

 If you would take, you must first give....

 — Lao-tzu

 Complete possession is proved only by giving. All you are unable to
give possesses you....	— Andre Gide

 If the sun were asked why he is giving light, if it could speak to us,
he would answer that it is his nature to do so....We must be like the
sun.... This is the purpose of life....	— Papa Ramdas

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Goals

 &

  Goals 

 Y

 ou can’t get anywhere unless youknow where to start from and

 where to go....	— Lionel Barrymore

 Our supreme goal should be a state of mind in which invisible things
are of more importance than the visible....

 —Alice H. Rice

 If you don’t know where you are going, you will probably wind up
somewhere else....	— Laurence J. Peter

 Perfection of means and confusion of goals seem to characterize our
age....

 —Albert Einstein

 No one has attained his goal without action....	— Bhagavad-Gita

 If one sets up fantasy goals, then it follows that they will experience
fantasy victories and fantasy defeats, the inevitable pendulum swing
within the world of desire....The goal of God is the reality of
yourself; you are within God, and God is within you....

 —A Spiritual Warrior

 Know what you want to do—then do it. Make straight for your goal and
go undefeated in spirit to the end....

 —Ernestine Schumann-Heink

 Goals are simply tools to focus your energy in positive directions,
they can be changed as your priorities change, new ones added, and
others dropped....

 — O. Carl Simonton

 The goal of life is to become one with the Eternal....You cannot reach
the goal without leading a righteous life and without possessing a pure
heart....	— Sivananda

 5 *	Goals

 Let him that would move the world first move himself....	— Socrates

 Man forgets that the ultimate goal in life—if such it can be
called—is not “becoming” something but “non-becoming” or
“non-living.”...

 —Ramesh Balsekar

 If the will knows not what to will, it will not be able to will.... —
Lao-tzu

 Most of humanity drifts with the tides, letting the ebb and flow of
life take them where it will. They are living flotsam and jetsam;
lacking resolve and direction, they frequently find themselves cast upon
unfriendly, barren shores....	— Robert Collier

 The knowledge of having chosen an ultimate objective gives direction
and emphasis to the days of one’s years....

 —-Oveta Hobby

 You must know for which harbor you are headed if you are to catch the
right wind to take you there.... — Seneca

 Not having a goal is more to be feared than not reaching a goal....

 —Robert Schuller

 One does not begin life in emptiness with a goal of constant
attainment; nor is life an urn to be continually filled with superfluous
goals.... — Shantidasa

 If you have no goals, your thoughts will take you toward what you think
about most....	 —Andrew Matthews

 The reason most people never reach their goals is that they don’t
define them, or ever seriously consider them as believable or
achievable....

 —Denis Waitley

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Goals 	♦?	j

 Security is a game in which the final goal is never quite in reach....

 —Laurence Martin

 Our goal and purpose is to bring our lives into harmony with God’s
will....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 Life is not an end in itself. Your goal is not conformed to this
material world in which your body is living. Your goal goes beyond this
world of appearances. Your goal is the attainment of Divine Perfection,
which is the nature of absolute peace and joy....

 —Chidananda

 The goal of human life is to realize God. If people praise or blame
you, if they honor or insult you....if your body stands or falls—never
move an inch from your principles or from your ideals....	—
Brahmananda

 It must be borne in mind that the tragedy of life does not lie in not
reaching your goals, the tragedy lies in not having any goals to
reach....

 —Benjamin I. Mays

 You must have long-range goals to keep you from being frustrated by
short- range failure....	— Charles C. Noble

 Goals are absolutely essential, for goals give meaning to life.... —
Victor Franhl

 There is no goal to be reached. There is nothing to be attained. You
are the Self. You exist always....

 —Rarnana Maharshi

 All human beings, though they may seem to be walking on divergent
paths, are all marching to one goal, and that goal is
Self-realization....

 — Bhagavad-Gita

  6  ♦?	 God 

 ?  	

 We are already the goal of our own search....	— Stephen H. Wolinsky

 Seeking means to have a goal; but finding means to be free, to be
receptive, to have no goal....

 —Hermann Hesse

 The Goal of life is God-realization....

 —Sivananda

 Not every end is a goal. The end of a melody is not its goal; but
nevertheless, if the melody had not reached its end it would not have
reached its goal either....	— Friedrich W. Nietzsche

 The happiest days are found in struggling toward a goal, not in any
attainment 	— Anonymous

 &

  God 

 A

  single spirit fills infinity. It isthat of God, whom nothing lim-

 its or divides, who is everywhere entireand nowhere confined.... —
Eliphas Levi

 Either God is everything or there is noGod. If God is, God is. If God
isn’t, Godisn’t. Your beliefs do not determinewhat is and what
isn’t....

 —Ron Smothermon

 Once you’ve seen the face of God, yousee the same face on everyone
youmeet....	— Deng Ming-Dao

 When you lose God, it is not God whois lost....	— Anonymous

 It is difficult to know why God revealsHimself to some and plays the
game ofhide-and-seek with others....

 —Papa Ramdas

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   God   *_1

 We have but a little knowledge of God....We are like bats who cannot
look up in the light of the sun....

 —Caterina Cibo

 No man can ever know God until he consciously becomes ONE with God.
Anything short of that is more or less speculative, imaginary,
visionary, and imperfect....	— Julian P. Johnson

 We learn that God is, that He is in me, and that all things are shadows
of Him....	— Ralph W. Emerson

 The description that God is egoless may seem to be a poor one. It
conveys no sense to the ego-ridden mind. People want to be told that God
dwells somewhere in the sky, in a world of great splendor, surrounded by
wonderful beings....Even to understand that God dwells in their own
hearts, men take time....	— Lakshmana Sarma

 There is one thing God cannot do—He cannot separate Himself from the
soul....	— Yoga Swami

 God does not pay at the end of every week, but he pays.... — Ann of
Austria

 In essence, the life of God and the life of man are identically the
same, and so are one. They differ not in essence, in quality; they
differ in degree....

 —Ralph W. Trine

 We give God the name of good: it is only by shortening it that it
becomes God....	— Henry W. Beecher

 The helping of man by man is God....

 —Ancient Greek saying

 The eye with which I see God is the same eye by which God sees me....

 —Meister Eckhart

 7 *	God

 If you are simple and truthful, seeing God is easier than anything else
in the world....	— Prabhushri

 If man is not made for God, why is he happy only in God? If man is made
for God, why is he opposed to God?...

 —Blaise Pascal

 Everywhere you look in science, it becomes the harder to understand the
universe without God....

 —Robert Herrman

 When the veil is removed, God can be experienced everywhere in full....

 —Sathya Sai Baba

 If we have any conception of what God is, certainly it should be
changing and expanding as we ourselves grow and change....	—
Bernadette Roberts

 I cannot imagine a God who rewards and punishes the objects of His
creation, whose purposes are modeled after our own—a God, in short,
who is a reflection of human frailty....

 —Albert Einstein

 God in the depths of us receives God who comes to us; it is God
contemplating God....	— Jan van Ruysbroeck

 God never uses a cookie cutter to create....	— Dom Stephen

 God is no fairy story, no wishful thinking, no joke, no ancient legend.
....God is real. God is.

 — P. M. H. Atwater

 God is a gold wire on which gold beads of His own manifestation are
strung....

 —Jnaneshwar Maharaj

 God is a sea of infinite substance....

 —John of Damascus

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065    God 

 Do you need proof of God? Does one light a torch to see the sun?...

 —Chinese proverb

 I could not say I believe. I know! I have had the experience of being
gripped by something that is stronger than myself, something that people
call God....

 —Carl Jung

 God is like a mirror. The mirror never changes but everyone who looks
at it sees a different face....

 —Midrash Tanhama

 God is simple, everything else is complex. Do not seek absolute values
in the relative world of Nature....

 —Paramahansa Yogananda

 Do not despise the world, for the world too is God....	— Mohammed

 The most basic thing you can say about God is that God is love....

 —C.  Alan Anderson

 If you put God first in your life, everything else will fall into
place....

 —Anonymous

 God is an experience, and no one knows God until he has had that
experience....	— Joel Goldsmith

 Let us be Gods and then help others to be Gods....	— Vivekananda

 Nothing exists save God....

 —Sufi saying

 To men’s eyes God has many faces, and each one swears that the one he
sees is the only true God. Yet they are all wrong, for all are true....
— Anana

 Why should God need us, unless it were to give us His love?...

 —Henri Bergson

  God 

 God is very near the simple, innocent, guileless, unselfish, loving
child— unconsciously; or, better, supra-con- sciously....	
—BhagavanDas

 God is concealed from the mind but revealed in the heart....	—
Anonymous

 All things proclaim the existence of God....	— Napoleon Bonaparte

 Man is a god in ruins....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 Do you know God? Do you know there is a power greater than ourselves
which manifests itself within us as well as everywhere else in the
universe? This I call God. Do you know what it is to know God, to have
God’s constant guidance, a constant awareness of God’s presence?...
— Peace Pilgrim

 Man can cease to become man, and become God; but man cannot be God and
man at the same time....

 —Plotinus

 We can know what God is not, but we cannot know what He is....	—
Augustine

 You are related to God as a drop of water is related to the ocean. The
drop and the ocean are not different, they are essentially the same.
Except for one thing—you cannot sail a ship in a drop of water and you
can sail a billion ships in the ocean....	— Shantidasa

 Man appoints, and God disappoints....

 —Miguel de Cervantes

 God is not omnipotent, omniscient, and omnipotent—you are. If you
think that there is God and you, the doors of heaven are shut...	—
Walter Starcke

 God is not like a fish or vegetables that you can buy Him for a
price....

 —Sarada Devi

 ♦?  188  ♦?

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890       shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890  
God

 189

 -  nfipp -

 God

 God is a light that is never darkened....

 —Francis Quarles

 We are, in the hands of God, like blocks of marble in the hands of
sculptors....

 —Alphonsus Liguori

 What does God do all day long? God lies in a maternity bed giving
birth....

 —Meister Eckhart

 God is Spirit, and they that worship Him must worship in spirit and
truth....

 —New Testament

 He alone grasps God who does not grasp Him. Anyone who understands God
does not know Him....

 —Hindu saying

 God is day—night, winter—summer, love—hate, war—peace,
abundance— want, heat—cold, death—life, youth- age,
waking—asleep, creation—destruction....	— Heraclitus

 Belief in a cruel God makes a cruel man....	— Thomas Paine

 The acceptance of the omnipresence of God leads to a very profound
conclusion. You cannot be APART from Him under any circumstances, for
otherwise it would mean there are some places where He is not
present....which naturally, is absurd....

 —Mouni Sadhu

 God is a circle whose center is everywhere, and its circumference
nowhere....	— Empedocles

 God alone is good and perfect....

 —Anandamayi Ma

 Until a man has found God, and been found by God, he begins at no
beginning, he works to no end....

 —Herbert G. Wells

 We cannot tell of what God is; we can only tell “what God is
not.”...

 —The Zohar

 God is man minus his desires....

 —Sathya Sai Baba

 When people are loving, brave, truthful, charitable, God is present....

 —Harold Kushner

 The ancient hieroglyphic for God was the figure of an eye upon a
sceptre, to denote that he sees and rules all things....	— John M.
Barker

 The eternal, unchangeable Lord, who is formless and attributeless, who
is absolute knowledge and absolute bliss, evolves the whole universe out
of Himself, plays with it, and again withdraws it into Himself....

 —Srimad Bhagavatam

 We cannot go where God is not, and where God is, all is well....

 —Anonymous

 Once you accept the evidence of God— however you define Him....then
you are caught forever with His presence in the center of all things....
— Morris West

 I gave in and admitted that God was God....  (upon relinquishing
atheism)

 — C. S. Lewis

 God must not be thought of as a physical being, or having any kind of
body. He is pure mind. He moves and acts without needing any corporeal
space, or size, or form, or color, or any other property of material....
— Origen

 God to me, it seems, is a verb not a noun, proper or improper....

 —Buckminster Fuller

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065    God 

 The kingdom of God is not imminent but immanent; it is not “among
you,” suddenly about to break like a thunderstorm, but “within
you,” ready to be expressed the moment you understand your latent
common nature....	— Gerald Heard

 Don’t bargain with God....

 —Jewish proverb

 The simplest person who in his integrity worships God, becomes God....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 Everyone is in a small way the image of God....	— Marcus Manilius

 Whoever finds God becomes wholly God; and unto God there is no other
God. Where the sun shines, can there be a night?...	— Sufi saying

 Nothing is born, nothing is destroyed. Away with your dualism, your
likes and dislikes. Every single thing is just One Mind....	— Huang Po

 Belief in God is acceptance of the basic principle that the universe
makes sense, that there is behind it an ultimate purpose....	— Carl W.
Miller

 God is that which has no definition....

 —Joseph Albo

 God’s delight is in the communication of Himself, His own happiness
to everyone according to his or her capacity. He does everything that is
good, righteous, and lovely for its own sake, because it is good,
righteous and lovely....	— William Law

 I had a thousand questions to ask God; but when I met Him they all fled
and didn’t seem to matter....

 —Christopher Morley

  God 

 Man without God is a bubble in the sea,a single grain of sand on an
infinite

 beach....	— Pincus Goodblatt

 Because you cannot see Him, God iseverywhere....	— Yasunari Kawabata

 God created man in His Image andlikeness, and then man returned
thecompliment and created God in hisown image and likeness....

 —Jean J. Rousseau

 We cannot get away from God, though

 we can ignore Him....

 —James E. Cabot

 If you say that God is good, great,blessed, wise or any such thing,
thestarting point is this: God is....

 —Bernard of Clairvaux

 God is always here and now; God doesnot know distance. And if we fail
tomake contact with God, it is we whohave distanced ourselves from
God....

 —Shantidasa

 All power comes from God....

 —Jacques B. Bossuet

 We lump together all things that arebeyond the capacity of all of us

 collectively to understand—and onename we give to all those
thingstogether is God....	— Peace Pilgrim

 An idea about God is not God....

 —Leo Tolstoy

 The sun only shines, just as God only

 loves....	— John Powell

 The deepest need of men is not foodand clothing and shelter, important
asthey are. It is God....

 —Thomas R. Kelly

 ♦?  190 *

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065    God 

 Some people treat God like they do a lawyer; they go to Him only when
they are in trouble....	— Anonymous

 God is the greatest democrat the world knows, for He leaves us free to
make our own choice between good and evil....	— Mohandas Gandhi

 God has created the world in play....It is God Himself who is sporting
in the form of man....	— Ramakrishna

 Four veils hide God from us: solids, liquids, gases, and light. Lift
these veils and find God everywhere, in everything....	— Paramahansa
Yoganda

 The people most separated from God are the ascetics by their
asceticism, the devotees by their devotion, and the knowers by their
knowledge....

 —Bayazid al-Bistami

 God is the great magician who can, by His touch, transmute even the
basest life into a golden consciousness full of His light, power and
joy....

 —Papa Ramdas

 God is the indwelling, not the transient, cause of all things....

 —Baruch Spinoza

 On the day I first really believed in God, for the first time life made
sense to me and the world had meaning....

 —Dag Hammarskjold

 It is easy to understand God as long as you don’t try to explain
Him....

 —Joseph Joubert

 What is needed is to see God in everything, and to receive everything
directly from His hands, and no intervention of second causes....

 —Catherine Marshall

  God 

 	

 God is over all things, under all things;outside all, within but not
enclosed;without but not excluded; alone but notraised up; below but not
depressed;wholly above, presiding; whollybeneath, sustaining; wholly
without,embracing; wholly within, filling....

 —Hildebert ofLavardin

 God is a blank sheet upon whichnothing is found but what you
yourselfhave written....	— Martin Luther

 God outside us is an hypothesis; Godinside us is an experience....

 —Harry E. Fosdick

 God becomes man, that man mightbecome God....	— St. Athanasius

 God enters a private door to everyindividual....	— Ralph W. Emerson

 When asked where God is, people pointtowards the sky or some far
distantregion; that is why He is not mani-festing Himself. Realize that
He is inyou, with you, behind you, before youand all around you; and He
can be seenand felt everywhere....

 —Sathya Sai Baba

 If God made us in His image, we havecertainly returned the
compliment....

 —Voltaire

 God is a fountain flowing into itself....

 — St. Dionysius

 God is a reality of spirit....God can-not....be conceived of as an
object, noteven as the very highest object. God isnot to be found in the
world ofobjects....	— Nikolay Berdyayev

 We turn to God for help when ourfoundations are shaking, only to
learnthat it is God who is shaking them....

 —Charles C. West

 ♦?  191  ♦?

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065    God 

 A man with God is always in the majority....	— John Knox

 You are a principal work, a fragment of God Himself, you have a part of
Him. Why then are you ignorant of your high birth?...You bear God about
with you, poor wretch, and know it not....

 —Epictetus

 No man can build a bridge to God. But God never forces man to cross the
bridge that He builds for him....

 —Nels F. S. Ferre

 The entire effort of our Soul is to become God. This effort is as
natural to man as that of flying is to birds....

 —Marsilio Ficino

 Whatever your belief about the nature of God, God becomes to you what
you believe Him to be. If you think God is cruel, punishing, vindictive
and that He sends sickness, pain and suffering, you will live in fear,
dread and guilt. These negative attitudes will create every opportunity
to demonstrate God’s wrath. If you believe that God is love, wisdom
and beauty, you will live in happy expectation and joy-that will attract
wondrous transformation in your life....	— Cheryl Canfield

 You’re God in your universe....

 —Werner Erhard

 God is a superior reasoning power....revealed in the incomprehensible
universe....	— Albert Einstein

 There is nothing we can give God that He does not have already; nothing
we can do for God that He cannot do better....	— Bernadette Roberts

 Metaphysics begins and ends with God....	— John S. Erigena

  God 

 God is omnipresent—which simply means you cannot be where God is
not....	— Peace Pilgrim

 The only God to worship is the human soul in the human body....

 —Vivekananda

 Nothing is void of God; He Himself fills His work....	— Seneca

 We are—because God is!...

 —Emanuel Swedenborg

 God is the sum of all possibilities....

 —Isaac Bashevis Singer

 What a privilege and how enjoyable it would be to live and walk in a
world where we meet only Gods. In such a world you can live....For in
the degree that we come into higher realization do we see only the God
in each human soul....When God speaks to God, then God responds, and
shows forth as God....	— Ralph W. Trine

 The Blessed Trinity....can be best understood as the Omnipresence,
Omnipotence, and Omniscience of the Universal Mind, God....

 —Baird Spalding

 The things which are impossible with men are possible with God....	—
Jesus

 God does not dwell in a body, so we cannot define Him in a material
way. God is a spirit....	— Billy Graham

 If there exists a good and wise God, then there also exists a progress
of mankind toward perfection....	— Pla to

 God gives us always strength enough, and sense enough, for everything
He wants us to do....	— John Ruskin

 ♦?  192  ♦?

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   God	*	1

 When man shall see God, he shall see himself and not until then....

 —Frater Achad

 God sleeps in minerals, awakens in plants, walks in animals, and thinks
in man....	— Sanskrit saying

 Each man enters into God so much as God enters into him.... — Henri
F. Arniel

 Every man is a divinity in disguise, a god playing the fool....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 Where God is, all agree....

 —-Henry Vaughan

 Even we may become gods walking about in the flesh....	— Athanasius

 The mind that wishes to behold God must itself become God....	—
Plotinus

 God does not stop creating, but always creates and begins to
create....For creatures are always in the process and beginnings of
their creation....

 —Meister Eckhart

 Think of God as a divine ocean and you as one drop with free will. You
can choose to remain separate from the ocean—but you won’t be happy.
You can choose to be part of the ocean, in which case you have given up
your free will, but you will be delightfully happy....	— Peace Pilgrim

 God has two dwellings: one in heaven and the other in a meek and
thankful heart....	— Izaah Walton

 God generates beings and sends them back over and over again, until
they return to Him....	— Koran

 Wherever there are no limits, where Infinity and Eternity and
Immortality exist, that is where God is....

 —Omraam M. Aivanhov

 God’s Will

 &

  God’s Will 

 T

 he strength of man consists infinding out the way in which God

 is going, and going in that way too....

 —Henry W. Beecher

 Not an atom moves except by God’s will....	— Ramana Maharshi

 There is nothing great, there is nothing holy, there is nothing wise,
there is nothing fair, but to depend wholly upon God, like a child does
and can do only what is bidden....

 — Jeanne-Marie Guyon

 Life has taught me that it knows better plans than we can imagine, so I
try to submerge my own desires....into a calm willingness to accept what
comes....

 —Julia Seton

 I am like a pencil in (God’s) hand. That is all. He does the
thinking. He does the writing. The pencil has nothing to do with it. The
pencil has only to be allowed to be used....	— Mother Teresa

 We must follow, not force providence....

 —William Shakespeare

 There is a reason for everything; nothing happens without the
permission of God....

 —Allan Kardec

 Learn to will what God wishes, and everything you want will certainly
happen....	— Eliphas Levi

 To understand the workings of God’s will, you have to submit yourself
to it unreservedly. Then you come to know that everything happens by His
will, and for good....	— Papa Ramdas

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   God’s Will   *_1

 Whatever the universal nature assigns to any man at any time is for the
good of that man at the time....

 —Marcus Aurelius

 God is our owner, we are His property; His providence works for our
good....

 —Immanuel Kant

 Some who have no knowledge of the subject, say that to surrender to the
will of God is an act of weakness. They should try it and see for
themselves. They would then find that they had taken on “a man’s
job,” and there is no life that calls for so much courage and faith as
that which seeks to be led according to the will of God....

 —Henry T. Hamblin

 The will of God is always good....

 —Ernest Holmes

 Those people who are not governed by God will be ruled by tyrants....

 —William Penn

 There is a divine plan behind everything, and if we allow ourselves to
be used by that Unseen Force, as good instruments, many things can
happen in a mysterious, miraculous way....

 —Satchidananda

 He is truly very learned, who does the will of God, and forsakes his
own will....

 —Thomas a Kempis

 We may rest assured that nothing whatever happens on Earth without
God’s permission....

 —Alphonsus Liguori

 Most of the near perfect actions or performances, and almost all the
works of creativity, happen in this state of egolessness, when the tenet
“Thy Will be Done” is actually put into practice....

 —Ramesh Balsekar

 	 God’s	Will

 You choose yourself to be a receiver of spiritual truth when you
surrender your will to God’s will. We all have the same potential. God
is revealed to all who seek—God speaks to all who will listen. When
you surrender your will to God’s will you enter a very busy life—
and a very beautiful one....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 Do not say, regarding anything, “I am going to do that tomorrow,”
but only, “if God will.”...	— Koran

 Whatever Heaven ordains is best....

 —Confucius

 God does not will that we abound in knowledge, but that we lovingly and
humbly submit ourselves in all things to His will....	— Henry Suso

 God gives the perfect blueprint for each upcoming experience and we
either wisely go along with God’s plan or we foolishly refuse to
follow His lead....

 —C.  Alan Anderson

 A tragic mistake that is often made by orthodox religious people is to
assume that the Will of God for them is bound to be something very dull
and uninviting, if not positively unpleasant. The truth is that the Will
of God for us always means greater freedom, greater self-expression,
wider and newer and brighter experience....	— Emmet Fox

 Live in the world like a dead leaf. As a dead leaf is carried by the
wind into a house or on the roadside and has no choice of its own, so
let the wind of the Divine Will blow you wherever it chooses....	—
Ramakrishna

 Desire and pray always that God’s will be perfectly fulfilled in
you....

 —Thomas d Kempis

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   God ’s Will 	 *_1

 Remember that you are an actor in a play, and of such sort as the
Author chooses, whether long or short. If it be His good pleasure to
assign you the part of a beggar, a ruler, or a simple citizen, it is
yours to play the role fitly. For your business is to act well the part
assigned you; to choose it, is Another’s....

 -—Epictetus

 True worship of God consists quite simply in doing God’s will, but
this sort of worship has never been to man’s taste....	— Soren
Kierkegaard

 If we are in a hole, the Way begins in the hole. The moment we set our
face in the same direction as His, we are walking with God.... — Helen
Wodehouse

 In His will is our peace....

 —Dante Alighieri

 Do God’s will as if it were your will, and God will accomplish your
will as if it were His own.. — Rabbi Gamaliel

 It is not within the law of God that man should live in poverty,
destitute. It is God’s Will that man should have plenty, heaped up,
pressed together and running over....	— Frater Achad

 He who strives to reach and to accomplish the divine will, will be
tried to the very uttermost; and this is absolutely necessary, for how
else could one acquire that sublime patience without which there is no
real wisdom, no divinity?...	— James Allen

 You must recognize, you must realize yourself as one with the Infinite
Spirit. God’s will is then your will; your will is God’s will, and
“with God all things are possible.”...	— Ralph W. Trine

 The very best and utmost attainment in this life is to remain still and
let God act and speak in thee....

 —Meister Eckhart

 5  ♦?	 God’s	Will

 ?  	

 We should ask nothing and refuse

 nothing, but leave ourselves in the

 arms of divine Providence without

 wasting time in any desire, except to

 will what God wills of us....

 —Francis de Sales

 Perfect conformity to the will of God is the sole sovereign and
complete liberty....	— Jean H. D’Aubigne

 Most people try to fit God into their plans instead of allowing
themselves to fit into God’s plan.... — Anonymous

 Divine guidance often comes when the horizon is the blackest....

 —Mohandas Gandhi

 Divine Will prevails at all times and under all circumstances. There is
no need to tell God your requirements. He knows them Himself and will
look after them....	— Ramana Maharshi

 If we make God’s will our law, then God’s promise shall be our
support and comfort, and we shall find every burden light, and every
duty a joy....

 —Tryon Edwards

 Restrain every wish that is not referred to God’s will; banish all
eager desires, all anxiety; desire only the will of God; seek Him alone
and supremely, and you will find peace....— Francois Fenelon

 I would consider being in harmony with God’s will a much higher state
than just loving God. However, loving God is good....	— Peace Pilgrim

 To do God’s will is the only science that gives us rest....

 —Henry W. Longfellow

 To a good man to serve the will of God, it is in the truest and best
sense to serve himself....	— John Smith, the Platonist

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   God’s Will

 No servant of God can be more than a channel or instrument. God works
through His servants. They do not work for God, but God through them.
God raises up His own instruments, guides them, trains them, and, if
found worthy, uses them....

 —Henry T. Hamblin

 God moderates all at His pleasure....

 —Francois Rabelais

 Divine Will is all powerful. God wills, and everything comes into being
that very second. Man wills, but it takes a long time for attaining a
thing or materialization of the desired object as his will is weak....
— Sivananda

 The highest peace which the soul can enjoy is to know itself as much as
possible united with God’s will....

 —Angelus Silesius

 True peace consists in not separating ourselves from the will of
God....

 —Thomas Aquinas

 For with God, to will is to accomplish, inasmuch as, when He wills, the
doing is completed in the self-same moment as the willing....	— Hermes

 Holiness consists in doing God’s will joyfully....	— Mother Teresa

 The essence of true holiness consists in conformity to the nature and
will of God....	— Samuel Lucas

 If you learn to see God in all things, you will learn to love them
according to His will, not your own self-will....

 —Gerald Vann

 God’s will for us is not some set of instructions independent of our
choices, but works through those choices....	— Jesse Jennings

 God’s Will

 '*3^ 	

 If the concept of God has any validityor use, it can only be to make us
larger,freer, and more loving....

 —James Baldwin

 Nothing comes to pass but what Godappoints. Our fate is decreed,
andthings do not happen by chance, butevery man’s portion of joy and
sorrowis predetermined....	— Seneca

 The study of God’s word, for thepurpose of discovering God’s will,
is asecret discipline which has formed thegreatest characters....

 —James W. Alexander

 God is the master of scenes; we mustnot choose which part we shall act;
itconcerns us only to be careful that wedo it well....	— Jeremy Taylor

 He who serves God after God’s willshall be rewarded accordingly to
hisown will; but he who prays to Godaccording to his own will shall not
beanswered in accordance with his ownwill, but after God’s will....
— Tauler

 It is not everyone who says to me “Lord!Lord!” who will get into
the Kingdom ofHeaven, but only those who do the will ofmy Father....	—
Jesus

 Everything in this life has to be paidfor. We can only give our
signature tothe credit bill: “His will shall be

 done.”...	— Lucy Cornellssen

 It is perfectly true that everything inthe world happens by God’s
will alone.His power is invincible. To submit tothis power means to
permit it to workin and through us irresistibly....re-sistance to the
divine will and powermeans frustration and misery....

 —Papa Ramdas

 * 196  ♦?

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   God’s Will

 197

 -  -

 God’s Will

 If only you will find out the thing God intends you to do, and will do
it, you will find that all doors will open to you; all obstacles in your
path will melt away; you will be acclaimed a brilliant success....	—
Emmet Fox

 It is the will of God that we surrender our wills....Yield completely
to God and then be satisfied....	— Meister Eckhart

 Man finds it hard to get what he wants, because he does not want the
best; God finds it hard to give, because He would give the best, and man
will not take it....

 —George Macdonald

 It is best to trust in God, not in our dim reasoning and uncertain
conjectures....

 —Philo

 The superior man lives quietly and calmly, waiting for the will of
Heaven, while the average man does what is full of risk, looking out for
turns of luck....

 —Confucius

 God’s will is always being done, whether we like it or not....	—
Sunyata

 While we live here, we must not so much seek to enjoy God, but rather
to do His will....	— Teresa of Avila

 There is not in the world a kind of life more sweet and delightful than
that of a continual walk with God. Those only can comprehend it who
practice and experience it....	— Brother Lawrence

 Nothing has separated us from God but our own will, or rather our own
will is our separation from God....

 —William Law

 It is for us to make the effort. The result is always in God’s
hands....

 —Mohandas Gandhi

 Oh, the great folly of those who resist the will of God! They must of
necessity endure afflictions, because no one can prevent the
accomplishment of the Divine decrees. They must suffer without deriving
any benefit from their trials....	— Alphonsus Liguori

 By the law of God, given by Him to humanity, all men are free, are
brothers, and are equals....

 —Guiseppe Mazzini

 The longer I live....the more I am content to let unseen powers go on
their way with me and mine without question or distrust....

 —John Burroughs

 The surest method of arriving at a knowledge of God’s eternal purpose
about us is to be found in the right use of the present moment....

 —Frederick W. Faber

 Life is nothing but a play and a pretense, and His will must be done,
however we rebel at it....

 —Robert Benson

 Man proposes, but God disposes....

 —Thomas a Kempis

 Complete surrender does imply that you should have no desire of your
own, that God’s will alone is your will and you have no will of your
own....

 —Ramana Maharshi

 The highest knowledge which man can attain is the longing for peace,
that our will becomes one with the infinite Will....	— Albert
Schweitzer

 The will of God is the measure of things....	— St. Ambrose

 Do nothing by self-will but rather conform to heaven’s will, and
everything will be done for you....

 — Lao-tzu

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065    God’s Will	*	198 	♦?	 Golden
Rule 

 	 tfe 	

 God understands His own plan, and He knows what you want a great deal
better than you do. What you call hindrances, obstacles,
discouragements, are probably God’s opportunities....	— Horace
Bushnell

 &

  Golden Rule 

 hat is unpleasant to thyself,that do not do unto thy neigh-

 bor. This is the whole law. All else isexposition....	— Hillel

 “Do not do to others what you would not have them do to you” is one
of the most fundamental principles of ethics. But it is equally
justifiable to state: Whatever you do to others, you also do to
yourself....	— Erich Fromm

 Treat your inferiors as you would be treated by your betters.... —
Seneca

 It is not fair to ask of others what you are not willing to do
yourself....

 —Eleanor Roosevelt

 If each of us were to realize that whatsoever he does to another he
does in effect to himself, through the law of reciprocal action, this
world would become a happy and peaceful place....

 —Robert Mueller

 Others will mostly treat you the way you treat yourself....

 —Mohammed Moussa

 Do not do unto others what would not be good for yourself....	— The
Magi

 In everything do to others as you would have them do to you, for this
is the law of the prophets....	— Jesus

 Think about others as you would wish them to think about you....

 —Emmet Fox

 This is the way of peace—overcome evil with good, and falsehood with
truth, and hatred with love. The Golden Rule would do equally well.
There is nothing new about that except the practice of it....	— Peace
Pilgrim

 That nature is good which refrains from doing unto another whatsoever
is not good for itself....

 —Zoroastrian saying

 The Golden Rule: “Do unto others as you would have others do unto
you,” often-times creates a conflict. All people are different and
respond differently to certain stimuli. One person’s delight can be
another person’s poison....

 —Shantidasa

 Do not do to others as you would not like done to yourself; so there
will be no murmuring against you in the country, and none in the family;
your public life will arouse no ill-will nor your private life any
resentment....

 —Confucius

 Do not to others what you do not wish done to yourself; and wish for
others too what you desire and long for, for yourself—this is the
whole of righteousness, heed it well....

 —Mahabharata

 Give to every other human being every right that you claim for
yourself—that is my doctrine....	— Thomas Paine

 The Golden Rule means we should do unto others as we would wish them to
do unto us if our positions were reversed....	 -—Napoleon Hill

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Golden Rule	*	199

 Pity the misfortunes of others; rejoice in the well-being of others;
help those who are in want; save men in danger; rejoice at the success
of others; and sympathize with their reverses, even as though you were
in their place....

 — Tai-Shang

 Judge not your neighbor till thou art in his situation....	— The
Mishnah

 We should behave to the world as we wish the world to behave to us....

 —Aristotle

 The Golden Rule is not a religion; it is the expression of religion....

 —Charles L. Allen

 What is hateful to you, do not to your fellow men. That is the entire
Law; all the rest is commentary....

 —The Talmud

 The golden rule of conduct is mutual toleration, seeing that we will
never all think alike and that we shall always see Truth in fragments
and from different angles of vision.... — Mohandas Gandhi

 The Golden Rule works like gravitation....	— C. F. Dole

 The free market is in accordance with the Golden Rule. We advance
ourselves as we help others. The more we help others, the more we
receive in return....

 —Percy Greaves

 Regard your neighbor’s gain as your own gain, and your neighbor’s
loss as your own loss....

 — T’ai Shang Kan Ying P’ien

 He that does good to another does good also to himself, not only in the
consequence but in the very act. For the consciousness of well-doing is
in itself ample reward....	— Seneca

 Golden Rule

 You are told you should love your neighbor as yourself; but if you love
yourself measly, childishly, timidly, even so shall you love your
neighbor. Learn therefore to love yourself with a love that is wise and
healthy, that is large and complete....

 —Maurice Maeterlinck

 Try to do to others as you would have them do to you and do not be
discouraged if they fail sometimes. It is much better that they should
fail than that you should.... — Charles Dickens

 No one of you is a believer until he desires for his brother what he
desires for himself....	— Sunnah

 Behave to your servants as you desire God to behave to you....	—
Philo

 The Golden Rule as applied to governmental matters is yet to come, and
when it comes, then and only then, will the future of nations be
sure....

 —Lajos Kossuth

 Desire nothing for yourself which you do not desire for others....

 —Baruch Spinoza

 Our conscience teaches us it is right, our reason teaches us it is
useful, that men should live according to the Golden Rule.... — W.
Winwood Reade

 We have committed the Golden Rule to memory; let us now commit it to
life....

 —Edwin Markham

 There is a law that man should love his neighbor as himself. In a few
hundred years, it should be as natural to mankind as breathing or the
upright gait....	— Alfred Adler

 Don’t do for others what you wouldn’t think of asking them to do
for you....

 —Josh Billings

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Golden Rule 	♦?	 2

 Do not do unto others as you would that they should do unto you. Their
tastes may not be the same....

 —George B. Shaw

 &

  Good 

 T

 he Infinite Goodness has suchwide arms that it takes whatever

 turns to it....	— Dante Alighieri

 If you see good in people, you radiate a harmonious loving energy which
uplifts those who are around you. If you can maintain this habit, this
energy will turn into a steady flow of love....

 —Annamalai Swami

 Our original nature is purely good. It is not possible to add anything
to this original state....	— Wang Ying Ming

 If you affirm the positive, the negatives will drop off by
themselves....

 —Ramana Maharshi

 Goodness is the only investment that never fails....	— Henry D.
Thoreau

 There is only one sole and veritable power on earth as there is in
Heaven: it is that of goodness. The righteous are the only masters of
the world....

 —Eliphas Levi

 Riches and power are but gifts of blind fate, whereas goodness is the
result of one’s own merits....	— Heloise

 The life of a good man is a continual prayer....	— Charlotte Lennox

 By the presence of good, evil is cast out, just as by the presence of
light, the darkness disappears.... — Ernest Holmes

 0 *	Good

 Every good that you do, every good that you say, every good thought you
think, vibrates on and on and never ceases. The evil remains only until
it is overcome by good, but the good remains forever....	— Peace
Pilgrim

 It is said that good cometh out of evil. This is perfectly true. Every
circumstance in life, when viewed from the right angle, proves to be for
good. We appreciate the true value of life only when we have tasted the
bitterness of the experience which beset it....

 —Papa Ramdas

 Few persons have courage enough to appear as good as they really
are....Most people confuse greatness with power, despite the fact that
greatness has nothing to do with power....

 —Julius Charles

 When we oppose good, we are hurt, not by evil, but we hurt ourselves.
We bring calamity upon ourselves through being out of step with life....

 —Henry T. Hamblin

 There is no one good or bad, only your actions have an effect that is
equal and opposite. You cannot get away from Newton’s third law....
— Yogi Bhajan

 The measure of mental health is the disposition to find good
everywhere....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 The only good is knowledge and the only evil ignorance....	— Socrates

 Doing good to others is not a duty. It is a joy, for it increases your
own health and happiness....	— Zoroaster

 The broadminded only see the goodness in people and in things; the
narrowminded only perceive the evil....

 —Chinese parable

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890    Good 

 Let no man think lightly of good, saying in his heart, “it will not
benefit me.” As by the falling of raindrops a jar of water is filled,
so the wise man becomes full of good, even though he collects it little
by little....

 —Gautama Buddha

 All good things which exist are the fruits of originality....	— John
S. Mill

 True goodness springs from a man’s heart. All men are born good....

 —Confucius

 The work an unknown good man has done is like a vein of water flowing
hidden underground, secretly making the ground green.... — Thomas
Carlyle

 To the good man nothing that happens is evil....	— Plato

 I have often said that a person who wishes to begin a good life should
be like a man who draws a circle. Let him get the center in the right
place and keep it so and the circumference will be good....	— Meister
Eckhart

 To be doing good is man’s most glorious task....	— Sophocles

 You should make an attempt to find good in whatever you see. Whether
you see good or bad you must regard it as good....	— Sathya Sai Baba

 It is good to win; it is good to lose. It is good to have; it is also
good to give....

 —Robert A. Johnson

 What a sublime doctrine it is, that goodness cherished now is eternal
life already entered on....

 —William E. Channing

 Great and good are seldom the same man....	— Thomas Fuller

 	 Good

 Wise men appreciate all men, for they see the good in each and know how
hard it is to make anything good....

 —Baltazar Gracian

 One becomes good by good action and bad by bad action....

 —The Upanishads

 I came into this world, not chiefly to make this a good place to live
in, but to live in it, be it good or bad....

 —Henry D. Thoreau

 Nothing is too good to be true, nothing is too wonderful to happen,
nothing is too good to last, when you look to God for your good....

 —Florence Scovel Shinn

 Little progress can be made by merely attempting to repress what is
evil; our great life lies in developing what is good....	— Calvin
Coolidge

 The good should be grateful to the bad—for providing the world with a
basis for comparison....	— Sven Halla

 The power generated of ten minds for good is superior to that of ten
thousand minds acting on a lower motive. But it is a silent power. It
moves in mysterious ways. It is noiseless. It makes no show of open
opposition. It uses no methods of effort through tongue or arm or
physical force....

 —Prentice Mulford

 At a simple level, good is that which helps people—evil is that which
hurts people. At a higher level, good is that which is in harmony with
divine purpose—evil is that which is out of harmony with divine
purpose....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 A good man is the ripe fruit our earth holds up to God....	— John
Milton

 ♦?  201  ♦?

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   It is very difficult to know
exactly what good should come out of a particular situation. To attempt
to manipulate circumstances so your idea of good can come about, is to
let the ego play God— and that, as you know, can and does backfire....
— Neem Karoli Baba

 There is only one way for a man to be true to himself. If he does not
know what is good, a man cannot be true to himself....	— Tse-sze

 The greatest good for man is to become conformable to the will of
God....

 —Thomas Aquinas

 Do not waste yourself in rejections nor bark against the bad, but chant
the beauty of the good....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 Good people are good because they’ve come to wisdom through
failure....

 —William Saroyan

 Waste no time arguing what a good man should be. Be one....

 —Marcus Aurelius

 No evil can come to a good man either in life or after death....	
—Socrates

 Goodness is easier to recognize than to define....	— W.	H. Auden

 He that does good for good’s sake, seeks neither praise nor
reward....

 —William Penn

 A self-realized being cannot help benefiting the world. His very
existence is the highest good....

 —Ramana Mahrashi

 The fundamental idea for good is thus that it consists in preserving
life, favoring it, in wanting to bring it to its highest value....	—
Albert Schweitzer

 Good things are not done in a hurry....

 —German aphorism

 The substance of God consisteth in nothing else but goodness....

 —Boethius

 Goodness is to be seen in its perfection only when man’s virtue is
fortified against desire....	— Hermes

 Wicked men obey from fear; good men from love....	— Aristotle

 All things work together for good to them that love God.... — New
Testament

 A  good man does good merely by living....	— Edward Bulwer-Lytton

 If you believe that God overrules all things for good, and only permits
apparently evil happenings for our good and the achievement of great
ends unbeknown to you, then all is well. All is well because you believe
in the Sovereignty of God....

 —Henry T. Hamblin

 Goodness consists not in the outward things we do, but in the inward
thing we are. To be good is the great thing....

 —Edwin H. Chapin

 The tendency of man’s nature to good is like the tendency of water to
flow downwards....	— Menicus

 He that is good is free, though he be a slave; he that is evil is a
slave, though he be a king....	— Augustine

 According to the sum total of our thoughts, we are either attracting
good to us or repelling it from us....

 —Ernest Holmes

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Good	* 2

 No amount of good deeds can make us good persons. We must be good
before we can do good....

 —Chester A. Pennington

 It is the greatest good to the greatest number which is a measure of
right and wrong....	— ferem y Bentham

 There is a spark of good in everybody, no matter how deeply it may be
buried....	 —Peace	Pilgrim

 The greatest amount of good we can do in this world lies not in what we
say or in the opinions we advance, but in what we are, the atmosphere we
carry with us....	— Paramananda

 When good people....cease their vigilance and struggle, then evil men
prevail....	— Pearl S. Buck

 The highest good is not something visible, but that which is felt
within the heart....	— Samuel Luzzatto

 A man who claims to know what is good for others is dangerous....

 -—Nisargadatta

 The good is that which is closer to God and the bad is that which is
farther from Him. Bad is therefore a lower degree of good.... — Israel
Bal Shem Tov

 &

  Grace 

 G

 race is not something outside ofyou. In fact, your very desire for

 grace is due to grace that is alreadyworking in you....Grace is the
Self. It isnot something to be acquired. All thatis necessary is to know
its existence....

 —Ramana Maharshi

 3 ♦?	 Grace

 I?  	

 Grace is not something special; it is really universal; it is the only
power for good there is, and all alike participate in its goodness; but
the ego interferes and discounts its work....

 —Lakshmana Sarma

 Water flows from a higher level to the lower levels. God’s grace too
is like that. It flows down to those who are bent low with humility....
— Sathya Sai Baba

 The breeze of grace is always blowing on you. You have to open the
sails and your boat will move forward....

 —Ramakrishna

 You do not acquire Grace, you become a part of It; you do not accept
Grace, It accepts you....	— Anonymous

 The way of grace is mysterious. You struggle for it and you do not get
it. Sometimes, without any struggle, you get it. Its working is governed
by something beyond all laws. It is not bound by any rules, regulations
or conditions....	— Papa Ramdas

 Most people have many desires which they want to fulfill. But some rare
people tell God: “I want nothing. Make me desireless, that is my only
desire.” Such a one will be a fit instrument to receive grace....The
one who will get the most grace is the one who is completely
desireless....	— Annamalai Swami

 If you go near a tree you will get shade; if you go near a fire you
will be relieved of coldness; if you go to the river and drink, your
thirst will be quenched; if you go near God you will get His grace. If
you do not go near and do not receive His grace, is it the fault of
God?...	— Kaivalya Navanitam

 Grace says you have nothing to give, nothing to earn, nothing to
pay....

 —Charles Swindoll

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Grace 	 ♦? 	 2

 We cannot get grace from gadgets....

 — J. B. Priestley

 The Grace is always there for the asking, always in abundance, but is
the seeker capable of receiving it?...

 —Nisargadatta

 With blessing everything is possible....

 —Rabindranath Tagore

 Grace is the absence of everything that indicates pain or difficulty,
hesitation or incongruity.... — William Hazlitt

 Grace is something you can never get but only be given....

 —Frederick Buechner

 Grace represents that God is always reaching toward people....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 No man has a right to expect blessings from God if he through greed and
covetousness blocks the pathway down which God’s blessings march....

 —John E. Haggai

 All that one can do is to prepare oneself to be ready to receive when
the time comes....	— Mahadevan

 Grace is the power of Truth that vanquishes untruth....	— Sufi saying

 What is grace? I know until you ask me; when you ask me, I do not
know....

 —Augustine

 Do not fall into the trap of trying to force some results. Don’t
forget we do not deserve anything. Everything is a gift—spontaneous or
not at all....

 —Lucy Comellssen

 Grace is a certain beauty of the soul, which wins the divine love....

 —Thomas Aquinas

 4 *	Grace

 Grace is always sufficient, provided we are ready to cooperate with it.
If we fail to do our share, but rather choose to rely on self-will and
self-direction, we shall not only get no help from the graces bestowed
us, we shall actually make it impossible for further graces to be
given....	— Aldous Huxley

 As heat is opposed to cold, and light to darkness, so grace is opposed
to sin. Fire and water may as well agree in the same vessel, as grace
and sin in the same heart.... — Thomas B. Brooks

 Though we can’t always see it at the time, if we look upon events
with some perspective, we see things always happen for our best
interests. We are always being guided in a way better than we know
ourselves....

 —Satchidananda

 If one lives a long time immersed in God’s grace, there stretches
across one’s soul a calm which nothing can destroy....	— Anonymous

 We must empty ourselves if we are to be filled. When the mind has
poured out all its thoughts, a vacuum is created. But this can only last
for a few seconds. Then a mysterious influx of divine life will
enter....

 —Paul Brunton

 The little word “grace” is like a small window that opens out on to
a great landscape....	— Alexander Maclaren

 There is nothing but God’s grace. We walk upon it; we breathe it; we
live and die by it....	 —Robert	L. Stevenson

 Cheap grace is the grace we bestow upon ourself....Costly grace is the
treasure hidden in the field; for the sake of it a man will gladly go
and sell all that he has....	— Dietrich Bonhoejfer

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Grace 	♦?	 2

 God is spreading grace around in the world like a five-year-old spreads
peanut butter: thickly, sloppily, eagerly....	— Donna Schaper

 The world is charged with the grandeur of God....	— Gerard M. Hopkins

 The word “Grace” in an ungracious mouth, is profane....

 —William Shakespeare

 Is it an easy thing to receive the grace of God? One must altogether
renounce egotism; one cannot see God as long as one feels, “I am the
doer.”...

 —Ramakrishna

 The amount of grace which one receives is proportional to the degree to
which one surrenders. If you surrender completely, then you will receive
enough grace to realize the Self....

 —Lakshmana

 Grace is a word which is pregnant with so much divine power and glory
that it defies definition. In brief, it may be described as, the love
and power of God. Such a love is ever pouring on all mankind, nay, on
all creation, because this love and power dwells in and permeates all
animate and inanimate objects....	— Papa Ramdas

 The sure sign of grace is....the desire to go against all selfish
desires....

 —Eknath Easwaran

 Like a lighted lamp, God’s Grace spreads all round, on all who
approach Him and love to be near him; but if you interpose a shade which
shuts out the light from you, you have only yourself to blame if Grace
does not shine....

 —Sathya Sai Baba

 In space come the grace....

 —John Heywood

 05  ♦?	 Grace

 p. 	

 Grace comes into the soul, as the morning sun into the world: first a
dawning, then a light, and at last the sun in his full and excellent
brightness....	— Thomas Adams

 Grace can only be attained by approaching God with empty hands and an
empty heart....

 —Anonymous

 Grace is the mastery of truth, the teacher of discipline, the light of
the heart, the comforter of affliction, the banisher of sorrow, the
nurse of devotion....	— Thomas a Kempis

 Grace strikes us when we are in great pain and restlessness. It strikes
us when we walk through the dark valley of a meaningless and empty
life....

 —Paul Tillich

 God is not partial. His grace is on all, the good and the evil, just as
rains fall equally on all places. Whoever tills the land reaps the
harvest....

 —Turiyananda

 Grace binds you with far stronger cords than the cords of duty or
obligation can bind you. Grace is free, but when once you take it you
are bound forever to the Giver....	— E. Stanley Jones

 The grace of God supplies the void and where there is less nature there
is more grace....	— Francis de Sales

 A  positive reality is put into a person who receives grace....

 —Thomas Aquinas

 The growth of grace is like the polishing of metals. There is first an
opaque surface; and by and by, you see a spark darting out, then a
strong light; till at length it sends back a perfect image of the sun
that shines upon it....

 —Edward Payson

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Grace	*	206 	♦?	 Gratitude

 	 isp?				

 God giveth grace unto the lowly....

 —Old Testament

 Destiny is the same as grace. Accept life as it comes and you will find
it a blessing....	— Nisargadatta

 God’s grace is the oil that fills the lamp of love....	— Henry W.
Beecher

 God’s grace never descends upon a man who is a slave to lust....

 —Mohandas Gandhi

 Knowledge is folly unless it is guided by grace....	— George Hubert

 As the eye of the body cannot see unless it is helped by the brightness
of light, so, neither can a man, even if he is most righteous, have
righteousness unless he is helped by the eternal light....	— Augustine

 Grace is God’s love in action for those who don’t deserve it....

 —Robert Schuller

 God is able to make all grace abound toward you....	—New  Testament

  Gratitude 

 ise men count their blessings;fools, their problems....

 —Anonymous

 Don’t drown the man who taught you to swim....Do not kick down the
ladder by which you climbed....

 — C. H. Spurgeon

 To be upset over what you don’t have....is to waste what you do
have....

 —Ken Keyes, Jr.

 Gratitude is the bottom line of happiness....	— Lewis B. Smedes

 The more we thank God for the blessings we receive, the more we open
the way for further blessings....

 —Betty J. Eadie

 There is an inherent law of mind that we increase whatever we praise.
The whole of creation responds to praise and is glad. Animal trainers
pet and reward their charges with delicacies for acts of obedience;
children grow with joy and gladness when they are praised. Even
vegetation grows better for those who love it....

 —Charles Fillmore

 If you can’t have what you want, be grateful for what you have. Keep
thinking constantly of all the big things you have to be thankful for
instead of complaining about the little things that annoy you....	
—Dale Carnegie

 Appreciate life instead of resisting it....

 —Judy Tatelbaum

 To stand on one leg and prove the existence of God is a very different
thing from going down on one’s knees and thanking Him....

 —Soren Kierkegaard

 A thankful heart is not only the greatest virtue, but the parent of all
other virtues....	— Cicero

 If anyone could tell you the shortest, surest way to all happiness and
perfection, he must tell you to make a rule to yourself to thank and
praise God for everything that happens to you. For it is certain that
whatever calamity happens to you, if you thank and praise God for it,
you turn it into a blessing....	— William Law

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Gratitude 	♦?	 207

 God has no need for our worship. It is we who need to show our
gratitude for what we have received....

 —Thomas Aquinas

 An attitude of gratitude is most salutary....	— Ernest Holmes

 When we are grateful for the good we already have, we attract more good
into our life. On the other hand, when we are ungrateful, we tend to
shut ourselves off from the good we might otherwise experience....

 -—Margaret Stortz

 I thank God for my handicaps, for through them, I have found myself, my
work and my God....

 —Helen Keller

 None is more impoverished than the one who has no
gratitude....Gratitude is a currency that we can mint for ourselves, and
spend without fear of bankruptcy....	— Fred Van Amburgh

 Gratitude is one of the great positive emotions because it creates
magnetism....A magnet is that which draws things to itself; therefore,
by giving heartfelt thanks for all the good we now have, through the
magnetism that gratitude creates, we will start attracting more good
into our daily life....	— Elaine Hibbard

 An attitude of gratitude ensures that our attention is on what we want.
As we see ourselves living abundantly and richly, and recognize what we
already have, we set up a flow of good things coming our way....

 —Andrew Matthews

 When you arise in the morning, think of what a precious privilege it is
to be alive—to breathe, to think, to enjoy, to love....	— Marcus
Aurelius

  Gratitude 

 Blessings are oftentimes not valued till they are gone....	— Thomas
Fuller

 A  grateful thought toward Heaven is itself a prayer....	— Rudolph
Block

 Gratitude is a vaccine, an antitoxin, and an antiseptic....	— John H.
Jowett

 If the only prayer you say in your entire life is “Thank you,” that
will suffice....	— Meister Eckhart

 The more you express outwardly your gratitude and thankfulness for what
you have, the more you change your molecular vibration away from the
dense energy into finer levels....	— Sanaya Roman

 Seeing a glass half empty is resentment; seeing it half full is
gratitude....

 —Anonymous

 He enjoys much who is thankful for a little; a grateful mind is both a
great and happy mind....	— Thomas Seeker

 The people who are successful are those who are grateful for everything
they have....Giving thanks for what we have, always opens the door for
more to come, and ungratefulness always closes the door....	— Alan
Cohen

 Gratitude is the least articulate of the emotions, especially when it
is deep....

 -—Felix Frankfurter

 Nothing more detestable does the earth produce than the ungrateful
man....	— Ausonius

 The spirit of melancholy would often take its flight from us if only we
would take up the song of praise....

 —Phillip B. Power

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Gratitude 	♦?	 208 	♦?	
Gratitude

 	  tSfC 		

 The gratitude of most men is nothing but a secret desire to receive
greater benefits....

 —Francois La Rochefoucauld

 Nothing is more honorable than a grateful heart....	— Seneca

 Thanksgiving was never meant to be shut up in a single day....

 —Robert C. Linter

 The lack of gratitude shuts out the light of Divine Intelligence....

 —Arlin C. Hauser

 Gratitude is the fruit of great cultivation....	— Samuel Johnson

 Would you know who is the greatest saint in the world? It is not he who
prays most or fasts most; it is not he who lives most, but it is he who
is always thankful to God....

 —William Law

 Words of praise, gratitude, or thanksgiving expand, set free, and in
every way radiate energy....You can praise a weak body into strength; a
fearful heart into peace and trust; shattered nerves into poise and
power; a failing business into prosperity and success; want and
insufficiency into supply and support....

 -—Charles Fillmore

 It is impossible to be negative while we are giving thanks....

 —Donald Curtis

 Gratitude to God makes even a temporal blessing a taste of heaven....

 —William Romaine

 No one is as capable of gratitude as one who has emerged from the
kingdom of the night....	— Elie Wiesel

 Unconditional gratitude is a powerful activity allowing ourselves to be
grateful for whatever happens in our life....	— Jesse Jennings

 Reflect upon your present blessings, of which every man has many; not
on your misfortunes, of which all men have some....	— Charles Dickens

 Most people don’t realize the good they had until they lose it, and
by then it’s too late....	— Anonymous

 In every circumstance we must look upwards. Whether someone does good
to us or we suffer harm from anyone, we must look upwards and thank God
for all that befalls us....

 —Abba Dorotheus

 Gratitude is the memory of the heart....

 —Jean B. Massieu

 You thank God for the good things that come to you, but you don’t
thank him for the things that seem to be bad; that is where you go
wrong....

 —Ramana Maharshi

 The person who has stopped being thankful has fallen asleep in life....

 —Robert L. Stevenson

 Praise expands everything. People, plants, children, animals, even
inanimate things, respond to praise. I cannot tell you how, but try it
for yourself. If you want more of anything, praise and give thanks and
you shall have it....	— Sue Sikking

 Let us adore God with thanksgiving for words of gratitude are the only
offering God accepts....	— Hermes

 When you drink from the stream, remember the source....

 —Chinese proverb

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Gratitude 	♦?	 2

 To create something new, or to keep receiving more of something you
have already gotten, get some paper and pens and write a thank you to
the Universe....	— Smiaya Roman

 Give thanks for all things. All things great and small, good, bad, for
all things are for a purpose. If you are faced with a problem, give
thanks, for there are no problems; there is an answer. Just ask the
Father within....

 —Ann Herbstreith

 In the deepest night of trouble and sorrow God gives us so much to be
thankful for that we need never cease on singing.... — Samuel T.
Coleridge

 Praise is the best auxiliary to prayer....

 —Herman Melville

 Man’s chief work is to praise God....

 —Augustine

 Gratitude is the fairest blossom which springs from the soul and the
heart of man knoweth none more fragrant....

 —Hosea Ballou

 Gratitude is one of the chief graces of human existence and is crowned
in heaven with a consciousness of unity....

 —Ernest Holmes

 Gratitude to God should be habitual....

 —Charles Simmons

 If you never learned the lesson of thankfulness, begin now. Sum up your
mercies; see what provision God has made for your happiness, what
opportunities for your usefulness, and what advantages for your
success....

 —Ida S. Taylor

 The worship most acceptable to God comes from a thankful and cheerful
heart....	— Plutarch

 9 *	Greatness

 Ungratefulness is the very poison of manhood....	— Philip Sidney

 Gratitude is what opens the spiritual doors to all the blessings.
Everything becomes clear, you see, you feel, you live....	— Omraam  M.
 Aivanhov

 Some people complain because God put thorns on roses, while others
praise Him for putting roses among thorns....

 —Anonymous

 Gratitude is from the same root word as “grace” which signifies the
free and boundless mercy of God....

 —Willis P. King

 Gratitude is the sign of noble souls....

 —Aesop

 Ingratitude is the soul’s enemy....Like a hot, parching wind, it
dries up the well- spring of holiness, the dew of mercy, and the streams
of grace....

 — -St. Bernard

 &

  Greatness 

 T

 hose who aspire to greatnessmust humble themselves....

 -— Lao-tzu

 Greatness consists not in the holding of some future office, but really
consists in doing great deeds with little means and the accomplishment
of vast purposes from the private ranks of life....

 —Russell H. Conwell

 Those who suppress the thought “I am great” by not paying any
attention to it....are great. Those who say “I am great” are small
people....

 —Sivabhoga Saram

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Greatness	*	2

 	 ‘J

 True greatness is to be free of thoughts....	— Ramana Maharshi

 We are very near to greatness: one step and we are safe: can we not
take the leap?...	— Ralph W. Emerson

 Our greatest weaknesses are always the flip side of our greatest
strengths....

 —Judith Sills

 The first element of greatness is fundamental humbleness....

 —Margot Asquith

 There can be no greatness in things. Things cannot be great. The only
greatness is unselfish love....

 —Henry Drummond

 Man is great only when he is kneeling....	— Pius XII

 There never was yet a truly great man that was not at the same time
truly virtuous....	— Benjamin Franklin

 We can do no great things—only small things with great love....

 —Mother Teresa

 The great man always thinks of virtue; the common man thinks of
comfort....

 —Confucius

 What is greatness? Greatness is when you have found out that you are
not great, but everything else is....

 —Yogi Bhajan

 The world knows nothing of its greatest men....	-— Henry Taylor

 Great men never make bad use of their superiority; they see it, and
feel it, and are not less modest; the more they have, the more they know
their own deficiencies....	— Jean J. Rousseau

 0 *	Greatness

 A great man is one who can have power and not abuse it....	— Henry L.
Doherty

 Greatness lies in being useful while you live....	— Fred Van Amburgh

 Greatness lies not in being strong, but in the right using of
strength....

 —Henry W. Beecher

 It is the test of greatness in a man that he should be able to see
greatness in others, and give them ungrudging credit for it....	— John
Rushin

 Everything great is not always good, but all good things are great....

 —Demosthenes

 The great men of the earth are but marking stones on the road of
humanity....	— Giuseppe Mazzini

 He is the great man who uses earthenware dishes as if they were silver;
and he is equally great who uses silver as if it were earthenware....

 —Seneca

 Nothing can be truly great which is not right....	— Samuel Johnson

 Pure, clean, void, tranquil, breathless, selfless, endless, undecaying,
steadfast, eternal, unborn, independent, he abides in his own
greatness....

 —The Upanishads

 Some are born great; some achieve greatness; and some have greatness
thrust upon them....

 —William Shakespeare

 He is the greatest man who is the servant of all....	-— Sivananda

 The greatest man is nobody....

 —Chuang Tse

                    shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Greatness	 *211 	*
Grief

   	

 If any man seeks for greatness, let him forget greatness and ask for
truth, and he will find both....	— Horace Mann

 Great men undertake great things because they are great, and fools
because they think them easy....

 —Luc de Gapiers Vauvenargues

 He who stays not in his littleness, loses his greatness....	— Francis
de Sales

 A great man is only an actor playing out his ideal....

 —Friedrich W. Nietzsche

 Most people confuse greatness with power, despite the fact that
greatness has nothing to do with power....

 —Anonymous

 The greatest....is to bear defeat without losing heart....	— Robert
Ingersoll

 No life ever grows great until it is focused, dedicated,
disciplined....

 —Harry E. Fosdick

 The great of this earth are not only simple but accessible....

 —Isaac F. Marcosson

 Great souls are those which have less passion and more virtue than
common souls....	— Francois La Rochefoucauld

 The greatest joy in life is service. The greatest power in life is
love. The greatest battle in life is the battle against oneself. The
greatest enemy that man of earth shall ever know is in his own thinking.
The greatest poverty that man of earth shall ever know is impoverished
thinking; and the greatest blessing man shall ever know is the blessings
of spiritual riches....

 —Frater Achad

 Greatness of spirit consists not in soaring high and in pressing
forward, but in knowing how to adapt and limit oneself....	— Michel
Montaigne

 The great are only great because we are on our knees. Let us rise
up....

 —Pierre Proudhon

 Every calling is great when greatly pursued....	— Oliver W. Holmes

 Nothing can make a man truly great but being truly good, and partaking
of God’s holiness....	— Matthew Henry

 True greatness is often unrecognized....

 —Russell H. Conwell

 It is a grand mistake to think of being great without goodness....

 —Benjamin Franklin

 A great man never loses the simplicity of a child....	— Confucius

 There is as much greatness of mind in acknowledging a good turn, as in
doing it....	— Seneca

 To be great is to be misunderstood....

 -—Ralph W. Emerson

 Great souls care only for what is great....	— Henri F. Amiel

  Grief 

 O

 nce the candle of hope is extin-guished, the road is all down-

 hill....	— Ken Olson

 The true way to mourn the dead is to take care of the living who belong
to them....	— Edmund Burke

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Grief	*	2

 The root cause of man’s grief and delusion is the identification of
the Soul with the body. Fear of death paralyzes him because he is
ignorant of the Soul’s true nature. The wise perform their duties in
the world, cherishing always the knowledge of the Soul’s
deathlessness.... — Nikhilananda

 Tears are sometimes an inappropriate response to death. When life has
been lived completely honestly, completely successful, or just
completely, the correct response to death’s perfect punctuation mark
is a smile....	— Julie Burchill

 Misery is due to the great multitude of discordant thoughts that
prevail in the mind. If all the thoughts be replaced by one single
thought, there will be no misery....	— Ramana Maharshi

 Do not stand at my grave and weep; I am not there. I do not sleep. I am
a thousand winds that blow. I am the diamond glints on snow. I am the
sunlight on ripened grain. I am the gentle autumn’s rain. When you
awaken in the morning’s hush, I am the swift uplifting rush of quiet
birds in circled light. I am the soft stars that shine at night. Do not
stand at my grave and cry; I am not there. I did not die....	
—Anonymous

 The deep pain that is felt at the death of every friendly soul arises
from the feeling that there is in every individual something which is
inexpressible, peculiar to him alone, and is, therefore, absolutely and
irretrievably lost....

 —Arthur Schopenhauer

 To be faithful to those who are dead is not to seclude yourself in
sorrow....

 —Martin Grey

 The dead have no tears, and forget all sorrow....	— Euripides

 2  ♦?	 Grief

 If you harbor grief, and give your sorrows vent, they will grow greater
every day. They will absorb your very life until at last you will be
naught but grief, wet down with bitter tears....

 —The Aquarian Gospel

 Let us not weep for those who have gone away when their lives were at
full bloom and beauty. Who are we that we should mourn them and wish
them back?...	— Helen Keller

 Grief drives men into habits of serious reflection, sharpens the
understanding and softens the heart.... — John Adams

 To spare oneself from grief at all cost can be achieved only at the
price of total detachment....	— Erich Fromm

 Grieve not; though the journey of life be bitter, and the end unseen,
there is no road which does not lead to an end....	— Hafiz

 Grief is a wound that needs attention in order to heal.... — Judy
Tatelbaum

 One of the chores of grief involves going over and over in one’s mind
the circumstances that led to the death, the details of the death
itself....Since every death diminishes us a little, we grieve— not so
much for the dead as for ourselves....	— Lynn Caine

 It is the peculiarity of grief to bring out the childish side of
man....

 —Victor Hugo

 Let us not lament too much the passing of our friends. They are not
dead but simply gone before us along the road which all must travel....
— Antiphanes

 Let the weeping cease; let no one mourn again. These things are in the
hands of God....	— Sophocles

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Grief	*	2

 Do not grieve over your own troubles: you would not have them if you
did not need them. Do not grieve over the troubles of “others;”
there are no others....	 —Bolton Hall

 He who is dead and gone, honor with remembrance, not with tears....

 —John Chrysostom

 We rejoice over a birth and mourn over a death. But we should not. For
when a man is born, who knows what he will do or how he will end? But
when a man dies, we may rejoice—if he left a good name and this world
in peace....

 — Midrash Tanhama

 Do not mourn over dying things: look to the east, give your heart to
the future. The trees have fallen, but the shoots remain. Reach out your
arms to bless those yet to be born....

 —Victor de Laprade

 The wise man, knowing his true nature, transcends all grief....

 —The Upanishads

 We enjoy some gratification when our good friends die; for though their
death leaves us in sorrow, we have the consolatory assurance that they
are beyond the ills by which in this life even the best of men are
broken down or corrupted....	 —Augustine

 Do not grieve over that which does not merit grief. Joy and sorrow are
of the world. You are a conscious being. Nothing can affect you. Arise!
Be awake!...	 —Natchintanai

 Why grieve for him from whom all grief has gone?...	 —Cato

 Weep not for him who departs from life for there is no suffering beyond
death....	 —Palladas

  3 *	Grief 

 ?  	

 There is no grief which time does not

 lessen and soften....	 —Cicero

 Grief is selfish. It is indulged in for selfgratification, not for
love. Cosmic man knows the beauty and unreality of death....	 —Walter
Russell

 To grieve at any loss, be it of friend or property, weakens mind and
body. It is no help to the friend grieved for. It is rather an injury;
for our sad thought must reach the person, even if passed to another
condition of existence, and is a source of pain to that person....

 —Prentice Mulford

 The loss of friends by the transition we call death will not cause
sorrow to the soul that has come into the higher realization, for he
knows there is no such thing as death, for each of us is not only a
partaker, but an eternal partaker, of this Infinite Life....

 —Ralph W. Trine

 To grieve at death is wrong. Any sorrow is a selfish, misinformed
sorrow. One grieves at their own loss and not for the one passed on....	
—Anonymous

 Nowhere has it been convincingly proved that expressing grief has
universal therapeutic value....

 —Norman Klein

 The first and necessary step of grief is discovering what you have
lost. The next step is discovering what is left, what is possible....	
—John Schneider

 Waste not fresh tears over old griefs....

 —Euripides

 The world is afflicted with death and decay; therefore the wise do not
grieve, knowing the terms of the world....

 —Buddhaghosa

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065    Grief 

 No one is so bereaved, so miserable, that he cannot find someone else
to succor, someone who needs friendship, understanding and courage more
than he. The unselfish effort to bring cheer to others will be the
beginning of a happier life for ourselves....

 —Helen Keller

 It is dangerous to abandon one’s self to the luxury of grief; it
deprives one of courage, and even of the wish for recovery....	— Henry
F. Am iel

 When grief is fresh, every attempt to divert only irritates. You must
wait till it be digested, and then amusement will dissipate the remains
of it....

 —Samuel Johnson

 The greatest griefs are those we cause ourselves....	— Sophocles

 There are moods in which we court suffering, in the hope that here, at
least, we shall find reality, sharp peak and edges of truth. But it
turns out to be scenic—painting and counterfeit. The only thing grief
has taught me is to know how shallow it is....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 Grief and mourning have to do with being abandoned and with loss. They
are the natural consequences of the loss of boundaries....	— Stanley
Keleman

 Every substantial grief has twenty shadows, and most of them shadows of
your own making.... — Sydney Smith

 Grief is a matter of relativity; the sorrow should be estimated by its
proportion to the sorrower; a gash is as painful to one as an amputation
to another....	— Francis Thompson

 There is no grief in the presence of God....	 —TheZohar

  Grief 

 No man should be held responsible forthe words he utters in grief....

 —The Talmud

 The truly wise mourn neither for thedead nor for the living....

 — Bhagavad-Gita

 Why mourn the dead? They are freefrom bondage. Mourning is the
chainforged by the mind to bind itself to thedead....	— Ramana
Maharshi

 Death is inevitable to every bornindividual. Similarly, birth is
inevitableto every dead person. Why do yougrieve over inevitable
happenings?...

 —Lahshmana

 Sorrow’s best antidote is employment....

 —Edward Young

 Do not count your tears of pain; do notpore over your griefs. Let them
passthrough your mind, as birds flythrough the sky....  —Sathya Sai
Baba

 All grief begins with a loss, but ifnothing is ever lost in the
universe,what is there to grieve?...

 —Anonymous

 When you live across the road from a cemetery, you cannot grieve for
everyone....	— Welsh proverb

 There is no greater grief than to remember days of joy when misery is
at hand....	— Dante Alighieri

 Excess of grief for the dead is madness; for it is an injury to the
living, and the dead know it not....	— Xenophon

 If you love the life that clings to the body, then you grieve when the
body dies. Avoid this grief by truly loving That, the Self, for there is
no pain of parting from this life behind all life....

 —Murunganar

 ♦?  214  ♦?

      shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Grief

 215

 -  -

 Growth

 Grief is itself a medicine....

 —William Cowper

 Grief is a tree that tears for its fruit....

 —Philemon

 Grief teaches the steadiest minds to waver....	— Sophocles

 Nothing becomes offensive so quickly as grief. When fresh, it finds
someone to console it, but when it becomes chronic, it is ridiculed, and
rightly....

 —Seneca

 &

  Growth 

 N

 ot to go back is somewhat toadvance. And men must walk, at

 least, before they dance....

 —Alexander Pope

 The human way of growing is unique;it has no rules, and can occur in
manyways....	— Marsha Sinetar

 We cannot stand still. We must grow.We must keep on improving
ourself.This is life’s main issue. All theexperiences of life are for
the purposeof making us more wonderful....

 —Elinor MacDonald

 Everyone has to learn to grow throughexperience. You might as well be
apuppet on a string if you don’t want tofind your own way, your
owndirection....	— George Anderson

 All that is human must retrograde if itdoes not advance.... — Edward
Gibbon

 In the transformation and growth of allthings, every bud and feature
has its

 proper form....	 —Fritjof	Capra

 <&?

 Pain is the price we pay for growing....

 —Alice H. Rice

 We are all in the process of growth, a continual evolution—some very
quickly and pronounced, others more slow and steady, but all are
changing, growing and evolving....we are here to share in the blossoming
of consciousness....

 —A Spiritual Warrior

 Spiritual growth may be measured by a decrease of afflictive emotions
and increase of love and compassion for others....	— Chagdud Tulku

 Nothing grows well in the shade of a big tree....	— Constantin
Brancusi

 No smallest atom of our moral, mental or physical structure can stand
still a year. It grows—it must grow; nothing can prevent it....	—
Mark Twain

 All growth is a leap in the dark, a spontaneous unpremeditated act
without benefit of experience.... — Henry Miller

 True growth is a process which one allows to happen rather than causes
to happen....	— Gerald May

 We grow by leaving behind our comfortable old beliefs....

 —Meredith Young-Sowers

 I learned if you don’t take a risk, you don’t grow. If you don’t
grow, you can’t be satisfied, you can’t be happy....

 —Phyllis George

 Growing up means accepting our fundamental aloneness....

 —John Bradshaw

 The moment a man begins to think for himself, that moment he begins to
grow....	— Fred Van Amburgh

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Growth	*	216	*	Growth

   	

 Every human being on this earth is born with a tragedy, and it isn’t
original sin. He’s born with the tragedy that he has to grow up. A lot
of people don’t have the courage to do that....

 —Helen Hayes

 You will not grow if you sit in a beautiful flower garden, but you will
grow if you are sick, if you are in pain, if you experience losses, and
if you do not put your head in the sand, but take the pain and learn to
accept it, not as a curse or punishment, but as a gift to you with a
very, very specific purpose....	— Elisabeth Kubler-Ross

 All growth that is not towards God is growing to decay....

 —George Macdonald

 Step by step is the law of growth. God does not expect the acorn to be
a mighty oak before it has been a sapling....	— George E. Carpenter

 All growth....is the result of risk taking....	— Jude Wanniski

 There are two ways in which we can grow and learn. One way is by our
own mistakes. The other way is to simply be willing to do the harmonious
thing without being pushed into it....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 The two great laws of life are growth and decay. When things stop
growing they begin to die. This is true of men, business or nations....
— Charles R. Gow

 Everything that is great in life is the product of slow growth; the
newer, and greater, and higher, the nobler the work, the slower is the
growth, the surer is its lasting success. Mushrooms attain their full
power in a night; oaks require decades....	— William G. Jordan

 When the fruit grows, the petals drop off themselves....So when
divinity in you increases, the weakness of humanity will vanish....	—
Ramakrishna

 Everybody wants to be somebody; nobody wants to grow....

 —Johann W. Goethe

 When you see the value of continued growth, the circumstances around
you become stepping stones....

 —Clyde M. Narrimore

 The great thing about life is that as long as we live we have the
priviledge of growing....	— Joshua L. Liebman

 I am still learning....

 — Michelangelo’s motto

 All spiritual growth takes place as a gradual harmonious unfolding. It
happens automatically. As you live up to your highest light, acting on
your inspirations, more and more light comes to you. There is no hurry
or impatience to get anything; it comes as you are ready.... — Cheryl
Canfield

 There can be no end in the sense of a full stop to the soul’s growth
in the loving knowledge of God....

 —Bede Frost

 Either we grow or we pay more for staying the same....	— Norman
Mailer

 Change and growth take place when a person has risked himself and dares
to become involved with experimenting with his own life.... — Herbert
Otto

 What does not increase, decreases....

 —HiUel

 In this well ordered universe, the perfect vehicle for our spiritual
growth and unfoldment is exactly our present situation....	— Sevakram

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Growth 	♦?	 2

 What we need for the turning point in the process of growing up is when
you discover the core strength within you that survives all hurt....
—Max  Lemer

 Progress and growth are impossible if you always do things the way
you’ve always done things....	— Wayne Dyer

 We find comfort among those who agree with us—growth among those who
don’t....	— Frank Clark

 Life is movement; life is action; life is progression; life is growth.
We must ever move forward; we must ever expand....Everything moves
forward. No matter what it is in which we may be engaged, we must go
forward. The stream that dashes gaily on its way to the sea is bright
and clear and pure. Not so the stagnant pool, that is filled with
impurity and is unpleasant both to sight and sense of smell....

 —Henry T. Hamblin

 Helping other people grow can become life’s greatest joy....

 —Alan Loy McGinnis

 Growth for the sake of growth is the ideology of the cancer cell....

 —Edwin Abbey

 Like plants, we do much of our growing in the darkness, because we are
too lazy or stubborn or unconcerned to grow in the light....

 —Elinor MacDonald

 It does not matter how slowly you go so long as you do not stop....

 —Confucius

 Growth cannot be had without first death; gain cannot be realized
without a corresponding loss. Always must opposites occur together, one
rises high that the other might fall....

 —Shantidasa

  7  ♦?	 Habits 

 ?  	

 Growing means growing pains: it

 means changing.... — Charles E. Jones

 Often we seek to grow or change ourselves by adjusting the external
aspects of our lives....We all too often forget that permanent or real
change only comes when the center of our being, our inner drives and
motivations, undergoes transformation....

 —Errol Strider

 A  thousand things advance; nine hundred and ninety-nine retreat, that
is progress....	— Henri F. Amiel

 It matters little where a man may be at this moment; the point is
whether he is growing....	— George Macdonald

 Keep on sowing your seeds; for you never know which will grow—perhaps
it all will....	— Old Testament

 &

  Habits 

 T

 he habit of being happy enablesone to be freed, or largely freed,

 from the domination of outward condi-tions....	— Robert L. Stevenson

 Curious things, habits. People them-selves never knew they had them....

 —Agatha Christie

 All useless habits are wasted expen-ditures of energy, and....should
bedropped quickly and completely....

 —A Spiritual Warrior

 Your habits can be your friends or yourenemies; they can help you or
hurtyou....	— Maxuiell Maltz

 Habits change into character....

 —Ovid

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Habits 	♦?	 218	*	Habits

 	vp*	

 After the mind has become accustomed to create a certain routine of
thought, it likes to go on creating....in exactly the same way. It
always loves its own way, and it can never believe that any other way is
quite as good as its own....Mind adores routine....	— Julian P.
Johnson

 Men’s natures are alike; it is their habits that carry them far
apart....

 —Confucius

 Disgust is half the battle in the conquest of neurotic habits....

 —David Seabury

 Organisms repeat responses that have brought satisfaction in the past;
often these responses persist even when they no longer bring
satisfaction....

 —Walter Anderson

 As  long as habit and routine dictate the pattern of living, new
dimensions of the soul will not emerge....

 —Henry Van Dyke

 Pavlov’s experiments with dogs were the first proof that habits were
the result of preconditioned responses to given stimuli, and that those
habits would continue even when the situation no longer remained exactly
the same....	 —David	Abrahamsen

 Have you ever fully realized that life is, after all, merely a series
of habits, and that it lies entirely within one’s own power to
determine just what that series shall be?...	— Ralph W. Trine

 Tension is a habit. Relaxing is a habit. And bad habits can be broken,
good habits formed....	— Dale Carnegie

 People allow themselves to be slaves of their bad habits and
society’s bad habits, but they also have free will. If they wish, they
can be free....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 The American overtension, jerkiness and breathlessness and intensity
and agony of expression....are bad habits, nothing more or less....

 —William James

 We are what we repeatedly do. Excellence then, is not an act, but a
habit....	— Aristotle

 We seldom get rid of an evil merely by understanding its causes....and
for all our insight, obstinate habits do not disappear until replaced by
other habits....No amount of confession and no amount of explaining can
make the crooked plant grow straight; it must be trained upon the
trellis by the gardener’s art....	— Carl Jung

 Habits are like a cable. We weave a strand of it every day and soon it
cannot be broken.... — Horace Mann

 Our habits, our addictions, our devotions, are either stepping stones
or stumbling blocks....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 Men cling to the opinions of habits....

 —Maimonides

 If you have been in the habit of inviting negative thoughts—jealousy,
envy, resentment, and self-pity—think of these as intruders in your
mind. The old Chinese saying fits here: “You cannot stop the birds of
the air from flying over your head, but you need not let them nest in
your hair.”...

 —Floyd & Eve Corbin

 Nothing is stronger than habit....

 —Anonymous

 One can get rid of habits only with considerable difficulty.
Once....habits are formed, it takes quite some time to get out of
them....	— Nisargadatta

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Habits	*	219	*	Habits

    Habits have been given for your strengthening, but they cease to be
purposeful when you become subservient to them....No one is a master who
is slave to his own inventions....

 —Alan Cohen

 Habits rule the unreflecting herd....

 —William Wordsworth

 Sometimes the hardest habit to curtail is the habit of trying too
hard....

 —Mary Bond

 A bad habit never disappears miraculously; it’s an undo-it-yourself
project....	 —Abigail Van Buren

 As a single footstep will not make a path on the earth, so a single
thought will not make a pathway in the mind. To make a deep physical
path, we walk again and again. To make a deep mental path, we must think
over and over the kind of thoughts we wish to dominate our lives....

 —Henry D. Thoreau

 A  nail is driven out by another nail; habit is overcome by habit....

 —Erasmus

 Habit becomes a sort of second nature, which supplies a motive for many
actions....Great is the power of habit....

 —Cicero

 Whenever you are angry, be assured that it is not only a present habit,
but that you have increased a habit, and added fuel. If you desire not
to have an angry temper, then, do not feed the habit. Give it nothing to
help its increase....	 —Epictetus

 We cannot in a moment, get rid of habits of a lifetime....

 —Mohandas Gandhi

 Habits are the daughters of action, but they then nurse their mother,
and produce beautiful daughters after her image, but far more beautiful
and prosperous....	 —Jeremy Taylor

 Habit converts luxurious enjoyments into dull and daily necessities....

 —Aldous Huxley

 Habit, if not resisted, soon becomes necessity....	 —Augustine

 A  neurotic thought pattern repeats itself with monotonous
regularity....

 —Thomas Troward

 The man who interferes with another’s habits has the worst one....

 —Henry S. Hawkins

 Any act often repeated soon forms a bait, and habit allowed, steadily
gains strength....	 —Tryon Edwards

 Habits are first cobwebs, then cables....

 —Spanish proverb

 The absurd habit of trying to do many things at once is a great cause
of confusion, frustration and nervousness....

 —Maxwell Maltz

 It is very important to realize that we are creatures of habit. Every
time we think a certain way, seek a certain good, use a given motive, a
habit is forming and deepening in us. Like a groove that is being
furrowed, each repetition adds a new depth to the habit....	 —John
Powell

 Bad habits of thought and action lessen as spiritual growth
progresses....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 The chains of habit are generally too weak to be felt until they are
too strong to be broken....	 —Samuel Johnson

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Habits	*	220

 	 tt#

 An elephant can be tethered by a thread—if he believes he is captive.
If we believe we are chained by habit or anxiety, we are in bondage. And
this bondage may be based on trivial concern....	— John H. Crowe

 Habit is either the best of servants or the worst of masters....

 —Nathaniel Emmons

 It seems, in fact, as though the second half of a man’s life is made
up of nothing but the habits he has accumulated during the first
half....

 —Fyodor Dostoyevsky

 The daily habit of wishing everybody well, of feeling like wishing
everybody God-speed, ennobles character, and beautifies and enriches
life....

 —Orison S. Marden

 The only habits you never conquer are the ones you put off doing
something about....	—Wess  Roberts

 Habit will reconcile us to everything but change....	— Charles C.
Colton

 Habit is the fly-wheel of civilization....

 —Henry James

 Building up character is building up of habits. The changing of
character is a changing of habits. Habit is second nature. Character is
first nature....

 —Sivananda

 The habit of viewing things cheerfully, and of thinking about things
hopefully, may be made to grow in us like any other habits....	—
Samuel Smiles

 Once  a habit demands something and its request is not fulfilled, the
next time you will find it weaker. But once you fulfill its will, the
next time you will find it fall on you with much greater force....	—
Isaac of Syria

  Habits 

 In early childhood you may lay the foundation of poverty or riches,
industry or idleness, good or evil, by the habits to which you train
your children....	— Lydia Sigourney

 Habit is habit, and not to be flung out the window by any man, but
coaxed downstairs a step at a time....

 —Mark Twain

 Habits work more constantly and with greater force than reason....

 —John Locke

 I have fixed the habit in my mind that I never raise a glass of water
to my lips without asking God’s blessings, never seal a letter without
putting a word of prayer under the seal, never take a letter from the
post without a brief sending of my thoughts heavenward, never change
classes in the lecture room without a minute’s petition for the cadets
who go out and for the cadets who come in....

 —Stonewall Jackson

 The mind is slow to unlearn what it has been long in learning....	—
Seneca

 The underlying cause of all weakness and unhappiness in man has always
been, and still is, weak habit-of-thought....

 —Horace Fletcher

 I call that mind free which resists bondage of habit, which does not
mechanically repeat itself and copy the past, which does not live on old
virtues, which does not enslave itself to precise rules....	— William
E. Channing

 As  snowflakes gather, so our habits are formed....	— Thomas Bentham

 Nothing is in reality either pleasant or unpleasant by nature; but all
things become so through habit....

 —Epictetus

 Habits

 When habit is once formed, impulse is powerless against it....

 —George B. Cheever

 The blame that people put upon others for their own behavior is created
from....mental habit. We cannot do differently, even if we wished,
because most of us choose the path that our minds have established,
unless a new impulse comes in from spirit....

 —Paul Twitchell

 All habits increase their power by repetition; resentment begets more
resentment and love begets even more love 	— Anonymous

 Habit and character are closely interwoven, habit becoming, as it were,
second nature....	— Maimonides

 Habits are to the soul what the veins and arteries are to blood, the
courses in which it moves....	— Horace Bushnell

 Who stoops too often will remain bent....	— Leon Harrison

 Habit is a hard mistress....

 —Ludwig Boerne

 We first make our habits, and then our habits make us....All habits
gather by unseen degrees....	-— John Dryden

 Any action repeated frequently will become habit, and it will remain
habit until the mind is reprogrammed to eliminate the habit....

 —Lois Wolfe Morgan

 We can change, slowly and steadily, if we set our will to it....

 —Robert Benson

 In a thousand ways, our actions today are conditioning our possible
actions tomorrow....	— Norman G. Shidle

  221  ♦?	 Happiness 

 	

 If we would know who is the mostdegraded and wretched of humanbeings,
look for a man who haspracticed a vice so long that he curses itand yet
clings to it....	— William Paley

 Habits are so assumed; but when weendeavor to strip them off, it is
beingflayed alive....	— William Cowper

 No habit has any real hold on you otherthan the hold you have on it....

 —Gardner Hunting

 Instead of being slaves to bad habits,why not be servants to good
habits?...

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 Good habits are so much easier to giveup than bad habits....

 —Somerset Maugham

 Habit is stronger than reason....

 —George Santayana

 We stuff ourselves into little habitualways of doing things....and then
if wedo not get to do it our way, or ifsomeone comes along who wants to
doit differently, we get irritable and webecome a nuisance to ourselves
andthose around us....	— Hilda Charlton

  M 

  Happiness 

 hen one door of happiness clos-es, another opens; but often we

 look so long at the closed door, that wedo not see the one which has
openedfor us....	— Helen Keller

 If you ever find happiness by huntingfor it, you will find it, as the
old womandid her lost spectacles, safe on her noseall the time....	
—-Josh Billings

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Happiness

 222

 Happiness

 If you want happiness for an hour— take a nap. If you want happiness
for a day—go fishing. If you want happiness for a month—get married.
If you want happiness for a year—inherit a fortune. If you want
happiness for a lifetime— help someone else. If you want eternal
happiness—know yourself....

 —Chinese proverb

 People who postpone happiness are like children who try chasing
rainbows in an effort to find the pot of gold at the rainbow’s
end....Your life will never be fulfilled until you are happy here and
now....	— Ken Keyes, Jr.

 Much of the unhappiness of human life is a result of the undue
importance attached by man to the things of the world; vanity,
disappointed ambition, and cupidity make up no small part of his
troubles....	— Allan Kardec

 Most happiness is overlooked because it doesn’t cost anything....

 —William Ogden

 A  man is happy so long as he chooses to be happy and nothing can stop
him....

 —Alexander Solzhenitsyn

 Happiness is an endowment and not an acquisition. It depends more upon
temperament and disposition than environment....	— John J. Ingalls

 The most exciting happiness is the happiness generated by forces beyond
your control....	— Ogden Nash

 It isn’t necessary to search for happiness in far places. It is
everywhere around you and about you....

 —Maurice Maeterlinck

 It’s pretty hard to tell what does bring happiness. Poverty and
wealth have both failed....	— Kim Hubbard

 Human love does not lead us to real happiness or enable us to give
happiness to others.... — Papa Ramdas

 This is happiness: to be dissolved into something completely great....

 —Willa Cather

 Happiness is a by-product of an effort to make someone else happy....

 —Gretta B. Palmer

 Happiness must never be your chief aim. Only seeking a more spiritual
goal shall we find happiness—along the way....	— Alice H. Rice

 Nearly all mankind is more or less unhappy because nearly all do not
know the true Self. Real happiness abides in Self-knowledge alone. All
else is fleeting. To know one’s Self is to be blissful always.... —
Ramana Maharshi

 If you want to be happy, be....

 —Leo Tolstoy

 If one thinks one is happy, that is enough to be happy....

 — Mme. de La Fayette

 There is no duty we so underrate as the duty of being happy....

 —Robert L. Stevenson

 Ask yourself whether you are happy, and you cease to be so....	— John
S. Mill

 We can never build happiness on the misery of other people....

 —Constance Warren

 Happiness is the sole satisfactory answer I have found in the sea of
puzzles, questions, mysteries, turmoils and competing claims in which we
bathe....Happiness is triumph of life; pessimism is its defeat....

 —Robert Mueller

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Happiness

 223

 -  -

 Happiness

 There is no more mistaken path to happiness than worldliness, revelry,
high life.... — Arthur Schopenhauer

 True happiness is of a retired nature, and an enemy to pomp and noise;
it arises, in the first place, from the enjoyment of one’s self, and,
in the next, from the friendship and conversation of a few select
friends....

 —Joseph Addison

 To be obliged to beg our daily happiness from others bespeaks a more
lamentable poverty than that of him who begs his daily bread....

 —Charles C. Colton

 The foolish man seeks happiness in the distance; the wise man grows it
under his feet....	— James Oppenheim

 A happy person is not a person in a certain set of circumstances but
rather a person with a certain set of attitudes....	— Hugh Downs

 True happiness is to understand our duties toward God and man; to enjoy
the present, without being anxious about the future; not to amuse
ourselves with hopes and fears, but to rest satisfied with what we
have....

 —Seneca

 Happy is he who is good to others; miserable is he who expects good
from others....	— Eknath Easwaran

 The secret of happiness is this: Let your interests be as wide as
possible, and let your reactions to the things and persons that interest
you be as far as possible friendly rather than hostile....

 —Bertrand Russell

 Man cannot come in contact with God without feeling happiness....

 —Paramananda

 Seek not happiness too greedily, and be not fearful of unhappiness....

 — Lao-tzu

 Happiness grows at our own firesides, and is not to be picked in
strangers’ gardens....	— Douglas Jerrold

 Most people ask for happiness on condition. Happiness can only be felt
if you don’t set any conditions....

 —Arthur Rubinstein

 If your happiness depends on what somebody does....you do have a
problem....	— Richard Bach

 Happiness is mostly a by-product of doing what makes us feel
fulfilled....

 —Benjamin Spock

 A happiness that is sought for ourselves alone can never be found....

 —Thomas Merton

 If happiness can be man’s for a moment, it can be man’s forever....

 —Frater Achad

 Happiness is not a matter of events; it depends upon the tides of the
mind....

 -—Alice Meynell

 The foolish seek happiness over the horizon; the wise find it under
their feet....	— Anonymous

 Happiness is basically the awareness of that which is good, but since
God is the Creator and Source of all good, true happiness, in its
deepest sense, is the awareness of God. The search for happiness is the
search for God....

 —Elinor MacDonald

 There is only one way to happiness and that is to cease worrying about
things which are beyond the power of our will....	— Epictetus

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Happiness	*	2

 Many persons have a wrong idea of what constitutes true happiness. It
is not attained through self-gratification but through fidelity to a
purpose....

 —Helen Keller

 The supreme happiness of life is the conviction that we are loved;
loved for ourselves, or rather, loved in spite of ourselves....	
—Victor Hugo

 Happiness is a butterfly, which, when pursued, is always just beyond
your grasp, but which, if you will set down quietly, may alight upon
you....

 —Nathaniel Hawthorne

 Would you rather be right or happy?...

 —Gerald Jampolsky

 The secret of happiness is renunciation....

 —Andrew Carnegie

 Realize that happiness can never be found in the mere rearrangement of
exterior conditions....  —Vernon Howard

 Talk happiness. The world is sad enough without your woes. No path is
wholly rough; look for the places that are smooth and clear....

 —Ella Wheeler Wilcox

 Happiness is like a sunbeam, which the least shadow intercepts, while
adversity is often as the rain of spring....

 —Chinese proverb

 We take greater pains to persuade others that we are happy, than in
endeavoring to be so ourselves....

 —Oliver Goldsmith

 The world is a relative place of good and evil. Remember this point at
all times. Try to live happily in any place, under any condition. You
will become a strong and dynamic personality. This is a great secret....
 —Sivananda

 4  ♦?	 Happiness

 Anything you’re good at contributes to happiness....	 —Bertrand
Russell

 Set happiness before you as an end, no matter in what guise of wealth,
or fame, or oblivion even, and you will not attain it. But renounce it
and seek the pleasure of God, and that instant is the birth of your
own....

 —Arthur S. Hardy

 Nothing is more fatal to happiness than the remembrance of
happiness....

 —Andre Gide

 Unless a person is happy, he cannot bestow happiness on others....

 —Ramana Maharshi

 Happiness is manna; it is to be gathered in grains, and enjoyed every
day. It will not keep; it cannot be accumulated; nor have we got to go
out of ourselves or into remote places to gather it, since it has rained
down from Heaven, at our very door....

 —Tryon Edwards

 Happiness irradiates and makes you look younger....	 —Robert	Muller

 The grand essentials to happiness in this life are something to do,
something to love, and something to hope for....

 —Joseph Addison

 Happiness is the greatest paradox in Nature. It can grow in any soil,
live under any conditions. It defies environment. It comes from
within....

 —Norman V. Peale

 A cloudy day is no match for a sunny disposition 	 —William A. Ward

 Two people can travel side by side, and one will always be happy and
the other always sad....	 —Narayana

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Happiness

 225

 -  ‘Sp? -

 Happiness

 The superior man is always happy....

 —Confucius

 Nothing in this universe....has by itself an absolute ability to give
you happiness. All things have a certain utilitarian value. They are
useful but they cannot give you happiness....

 —Chidananda

 He only is happy as well as great who needs neither to obey nor command
in order to be something....

 —Johann W. Goethe

 To continue to be whatever we happen to be makes in the long run for
the greatest human happiness....

 -—Harry A. Wolfson

 The search for happiness is one of the chief sources of unhappiness....

 —Eric Hoffer

 To find out what one is fitted to do and to secure an opportunity to do
it is the key to happiness....	— John Dewey

 What happiness is, no one can say for another. But no one, I am
convinced, can be happy who lives only for himself....	— John Mason
Brown

 The haunts of happiness are varied, but I have more often found her
among little children, home firesides, and country houses more than
anywhere else....	— Sydney Smith

 Knowledge of God is the consummation of happiness....	— Philo

 All men desire happiness. They do not know exactly what is meant by
happiness, but they desire it just the same....	— James T. Mangan

 There may be Peace with Joy, and Joy with Peace, but the two combined
make Happiness.... — James B. Tweedsmuir

 Do not place your happiness in distant lands or in grandly imagined
tasks; do well what you can do, until you can do greater things as
well....

 —Will Durant

 If only we wanted to be happy it would be easy; but we want to be
happier than other people, which is difficult, since we think them
happier than they are....

 —Charles Montesquieu

 Here is the secret of happiness: Forget yourself and think of
others....

 —Paramananda

 There is no happiness higher than tranquility....	— Gautama Buddha

 If there were in the world today any large number of people who desired
their own happiness more than they desired the unhappiness of others, we
could have paradise in a few years....

 —Bertrand Russell

 Happiness is your nature. It is not wrong to desire it. What is wrong
is seeking it outside when it is inside....

 —Ramana Maharshi

 Remember that happiness is the way of travel—not a destination....

 —Roy M. Goodman

 Happiness is within us, and it is ours, but we are always superimposing
our own inner joy onto something outside and thinking it comes from
there....

 —Muhtananda

 Happiness is living by inner purpose, not by outside pressures....

 —David Augsberger

 Happiness does not depend upon what we have, but it does depend on how
we feel towards what we have....

 — W. D. Hoard

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065    Happiness 

 Nothing can make you happier than you are. All search for happiness is
misery and leads to more misery. The only happiness worth the name is
the natural happiness of conscious being....

 —Nisargadatta

 Happiness is no other than soundness and perfection of the mind....

 —Marcus Aurelius

 The happiness which we receive from ourselves is greater than that
which we receive from our surroundings....The world in which a man lives
shapes itself chiefly by the way in which he looks at it....	— Arthur
Schopenhauer

 1 am a happy man because I have renounced happiness....	— Jules
Renard

 Unhappiness is the hunger to get; happiness is the hunger to give....

 —William G. Jordan

 Supreme happiness consists in selfcontent; that we may gain this
selfcontent we are placed upon this earth and endowed with freedom, we
are tempted by our passions and restrained by conscience....	— Jean J.
Rousseau

 It is not easy to find happiness in ourselves, and it is not possible
to find it elsewhere....	-— Agnes Repplier

 There are three occasions for true happiness....the surplus of
energy....the cessation of pain....the absolute certainty one is
partaking of the will of God....	— Isak Dinesen

 Happiness depends upon what lies between the soles of the feet and the
crown of your head....

 —Honore de Balzac

 The truly happy man is always a fighting optomist....  —Walter B.
Wolfe

 226 * 	 Happiness

 Men and women are rushing hither and thither in the blind search for
happiness, and cannot find it; nor ever will until they recognize that
happiness is already within them and round about them, filling the
universe, and that they, in their selfish searching, are shutting
themselves out from it....

 —James Allen

 Happiness comes not from without but from within. It comes not from the
power of possession but from the power of appreciation....

 — J. Walter Sylvester

 Happiness consists not in having, but of being, not of possessing, but
of enjoying. It is the warm glow of a heart at peace with itself....

 —Norman V. Peale

 To be happy, we must not be too concerned with others....

 —Albert Camus

 Every man ought to begin with himself, and make his own happiness
first, from which the happiness of the whole world would at last
unquestionably follow....	— Johann W. Goethe

 Happiness is the way station between too little and too much....

 —Channing Poliak

 The greatest happiness you can have is knowing that you do not
necessarily require happiness....

 —William Saroyan

 If a man is unhappy, remember that his unhappiness is his own fault,
for God made all men to be happy....

 —Epictetus

 A  great obstacle to happiness is to expect too much happiness....

 —Bernard Fontanelle

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Happiness	*	2

 Happiness is not in circumstances, but in ourselves. It is not
something we see, like a rainbow, or feel, like the heat of the fire.
Happiness is something we are....	 —John B. Shearen

 The happiest people seem to be those who have no particular cause for
being happy except that they are so....

 —William R. Inge

 Few things are needed to make a wise man happy, but nothing can satisfy
the fool—and this is the reason why so many of mankind are
miserable....

 —Francois La Rochefoucauld

 If God told you exactly what it is you were to do, you would be happy
doing it, no matter what it was. What you are doing is what God wants
you to do. Be happy....	 —Werner	Erhard

 As long as we structure our lives in a way where our happiness is
dependent upon something we cannot control, then we will experience
pain....

 —Anthony Robbins

 Happiness, like an old friend, is inclined to drop in
unexpectedly—when you’re working hard on something else....	— Ray
Inman

 When people seek excessive entertainment and amusement what are they
doing but confessing their lack of happiness and their need to forget
this fact?...	— Paul Brunt on

 The pursuit of happiness is a most ridiculous phrase; if you pursue
happiness you’ll never find it....

 — C. P. Snow

 What is your happiness worth when you have to strive and labor for it?
True happiness is spontaneous and effortless....	— Nisargadatta

  7 *	Happiness 

 ?  	

 Happiness is a habit—cultivate it....

 —Elbert Hubbard

 Happiness is a quality of mind. It is something we possess within....If
we do not have it within, nothing outside can give it to us....	—
Paramananda

 The only way for a man to be always happy is to submit to God’s will
and, leaving everything to Him, be content with the condition in which
He places him....	— Papa Ramdas

 Whoever possesses God is happy....

 —Augustine

 The secret of happiness is freedom, and the secret of freedom is
courage....

 —Gilbert Murray

 Happiness is neither without us nor within us. It is in God, both
without us and within us....	— Blaise Pascal

 Happiness? It is an illusion to think that more comfort means more
happiness. Happiness comes of the capacity to feel deeply, to enjoy
simply, to think freely, to risk life, to be needed....

 —Storm Jameson

 I am more and more convinced that our happiness or unhappiness depends
more on the way we meet the events of life than on the nature of those
events themselves....	— Alexander Humboldt

 The happiness of your life depends upon the quality of your
thoughts....

 —Marcus Aurelius

 Happiness has no limits....To be happy, to possess eternal life, to be
in God, to be saved—all these are the same....

 —Henry F. Amiel

 Perfect happiness is the absence of the striving for happiness.... —
Chuang Tse

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065    Happiness 

 My creed is this: Happiness is the only good. The time to be happy is
now. The place to be happy is here. The way to be happy is to make other
people happy....

 —Robert Ingersoll

 Happiness is not a state to arrive at, but a manner of traveling....

 —Margaret Lee Runbeck

 Happiness is the one sense that matters. Happiness is abiding
enthusiasm. Happiness is single-mindedness. Happiness is
whole-heartedness....

 —Samuel M. Shoemaker

 A  happy life must be to a great extent a quiet life, for it is only in
an atmosphere of quiet that true joy can live....	— Bertrand Russell

 Happiness consists largely in not wanting something that is out of your
reach....	— Robert C. Edwards

 The happy man is he that knows the world and cares not for it....

 —Joseph Hall

 To enjoy true happiness we must travel into a very far country, and
even out of ourselves....	— Thomas Browne

 Happiness comes more from loving than being loved; and often when our
affection seems wounded it is only our vanity bleeding.... — J. E.
Buchrose

 Happiness depends not on things around us, but on our attitude....

 —Alfred A. Montapert

 Happiness is a perfume you cannot pour on others without getting a few
drops on yourself....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 There is no way to happiness; happiness is the way....	— Wayne Dyer

 228  ♦?	 Happiness

 Love for life is the fundamental ingredient of all recipes for hap-
piness....Happiness is the peak fulfillment of life. It is a human’s
own doing, his greatest power and liberty. Happiness is not external to
man, it is a genial force in him. It cannot be elsewhere....	— Robert
Muller

 Happiness is the meaning and the purpose of life, the whole aim and end
of human existence....

 —Aristotle

 We have been accustomed to thinking that we have to get something from
outside us in order to be happy, but in truth it works the other way: we
must learn to contact our inner source of happiness and satisfaction and
flow it outward to share with others—not because it is virtuous to do
so, but because it really feels good....

 —Shakti Gawain

 My  present happiness is all I see. I see all things as I would have
them be....

 —Gerald Jampolsky

 The ingredients of happiness are so simple that they can be counted on
one hand. First of all, happiness must be shared. Selfishness is its
enemy; to make another happy is to be happy one’s self. It is quiet,
seldom found for long in crowds, most easily won in moments of solitude
and reflection. It comes from within, and rests most securely on simple
goodness and clear conscience....	— William Ogden

 We have no more right to consume happiness without producing it than to
consume wealth without producing it....	— George B. Shaw

 Happiness is not being pained in body or troubled in mind....

 —Thomas Jefferson

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065    Happiness 

 Happy the man who, unknown to the world, lives content with himself in
some retired nook...	— Nicolas Boileau

 Happiness is a process of radiation, not absorption. No need to seek
for happiness. Happiness is within. Happiness is the only thing where
the more you give, the more you possess. Pleasure can be bought at a
price. Happiness is priceless....	— Fred Van Amburgh

 Happiness is the grace of being permitted to unfold....all the
spiritual powers planted in us.... -— Franz Werfel

 The world is so full of a number of things, I’m sure we should all be
happy as kings....	— Robert L. Stevenson

 Real happiness is not dependent on external things. The pond is fed
from within. The kind of happiness that stays with you is the happiness
that springs from inward thoughts and emotions....	— William L. Phelps

 Very little is needed to make a happy life. It is all within yourself,
in your way of thinking.... — Marcus Aurelius

 He who waits for God fails to understand that he possesses Him. Believe
that God and happiness are one, and put all that happiness in the
present moment....	— Andre Gide

 What can be added to the happiness of a man who is in health, out of
debt, and has a clear conscience.... — Adam Smith

 Happiness sneaks in through a door you didn’t know you left open....

 —John Barrymore

 Happy the man who early learns the wide chasm that lies between his
wishes and his powers....

 —Johann W. Goethe

 229  ♦?	 Happiness

 One of the surest ways to find happiness for yourself is to devote your
energies toward making someone else happy. Happiness is an elusive,
transitory thing. And if you set out in search for it, you will find it
evasive. But if you try to bring happiness to someone else, then it
comes to you....

 —Clement Stone

 The happiest place to live in is just inside your income.... —
Anonymous

 Happiness is the realization of God in the heart. Happiness is the
result of praise and thanksgiving, of faith, of acceptance; a quiet
tranquil realization of the love of God....	— White Eagle

 Happiness and success in life do not depend upon our circumstance but
on ourselves....	— John Lubbock

 Happiness is possible even in pain and suffering. But pleasure only can
never create happiness....	— Paul Tillich

 Why do people worship God? For happiness. Why do people get married?
For happiness. Why do people divorce? For happiness. Everything is done
in the name of and for happiness. Still there is no happiness.... —
Yogi Bhajan

 During my whole life I have not had twenty-four hours of happiness....

 —Prince Bismarck

 Happiness is the voice of optimism, of faith, of simple, steadfast
love. No cynic or pessimist can be really happy. A cynic is a man who is
morally nearsighted, and brags about it...

 —William G. Jordan

 Most people are about as happy as they make up their minds to be....

 —Abraham Lincoln

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Happiness 	♦?	 230

 About ninety percent of the things in our lives are right and about ten
percent are wrong. If we want to be happy, all we have to do is to
concentrate on the ninety percent that are right and ignore the ten
percent that are wrong.... — Dale Carnegie

 Happiness comes most to persons who seek her the least and think least
about it. It is not an object to be sought; it is a state to be induced.
It must follow, not lead. It must overtake you, and not you overtake
it....	— John Burroughs

 Happiness? That’s nothing more than health and a poor memory....

 —Albert Schweitzer

 If we want to know what happiness is we must seek it, not as if it were
a pot of gold at the end of the rainbow, but among human beings who are
living

 richly and fully the good life	

 -—Walter B. Wolfe

 All men wish to be happy, but are dull at perceiving exactly what is
that makes people happy....	-— Seneca

 The happiness we receive from ourselves is greater than that which we
obtain from our surroundings....

 —Metrodorus

 Happiness in this world, when it comes, comes incidentally. Make
happiness the object of pursuit, and it leads us on a wild-goose chase,
and is never attained....  —Nathaniel Hawthorne

 Many people push a burden of inexplicable sadness through half a
lifetime....and try to believe they are happy....	— Peter Staler

 Happiness doesn’t come from doing what we like to do but liking what
we do....	— Wilfred Peterson

  Happiness 

 The happy people are those who areproducing something; the bored
peopleare those who are consuming muchand producing nothing....

 —William R. Ingle

 To be without some of the things youwant is an indispensable part
ofhappiness....	— Bertrand Russell

 Happiness is not a reward—it is aconsequence. Suffering is not
apunishment—it is a result....

 —Robert Ingersoll

 Man is meant for happiness, and thishappiness is in him, in the
satisfactionof the daily needs of his nature....

 —Leo Tolstoy

 I have diligently numbered the days ofpure and genuine happiness
whichhave fallen on my lot; they amount tofourteen....	— Abd-El-Raham

 Happiness is essentially a state ofgoing somewhere,
wholeheartedly,one-directionally, without regret orreservation....	—
William H. Sheldon

 You don’t need the approval of otherpeople to be happy....	—
Anonymous

 Everyone must learn the secret ofhappiness which consists of refusing
toshed tears for anything less than God....

 —Sathya Sai Baba

 Happiness has no existence nor valuein itself, as an object which we
canpursue and attain as such. It is no morethan the sign, the effect,
the reward....ofappropriately directed action....

 —Teilhard de Chardin

 Your happiness or misery depends onyour state of mind and not upon
yourexternal conditions or circumstances....

 —Papa Ramdas

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Hatred

 &

  Hatred 

 H

 atred cannot last unless it is con-tinuously nourished and stimu-

 lated....	— Edmund A. Brasset

 The price of hating other human beings is loving oneself less.... 
—Eldridge Clea ver

 Hate gets going, it goes round, it gets older and tighter and older and
tighter, until it holds a person inside it like a fist holds a stick....
— Ursula K. LeGuin

 If you want to see the heroic, look at those who can love in return for
hatred....	— Bhagavad-Gita

 Hate traps us by binding us too tightly to our adversary.... — Milan
Kundera

 Hatred is a feeling which leads to the extinction of values....

 —Jose Ortega y Gasset

 Our first duty is not to hate ourselves....

 —Vivehananda

 Hate injures the hater not the hated....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 The one person perhaps in the world whom you most dislike is the very
one to whom you are attaching yourself by a hook that is stronger than
steel. Is this what you wish?...	— Emmet Fox

 Meet hatred with hatred and you degrade yourself. Meet hatred with love
and you not only elevate yourself but also the one who bears you
hatred....

 —Ralph W. Trine

 Hating people is like burning down your own house to get rid of a
rat....

 —Harry E. Fosdick

 1 *	Hatred

 Hate the sin and love the sinner....

 —Mohandas Gandhi

 Hate is self-punishment....

 —Hosea Ballou

 Hatred is the vice of narrow souls; they feed it with all their
littleness, and make it the pretext of base tyrannies....

 —Honore de Balzac

 Love, friendship, respect, do not unite people as much as a common
hatred for something....	— Anton Chekhov

 If I wanted to punish an enemy it should be by fastening on him the
trouble of constantly hating somebody....	— Hannah More

 No man, even for his body’s sake, can afford to indulge in hatred. It
is like repeated doses of poison....

 —Florence Scovel Shinn

 Hatred is the madness of the heart....

 —George Byron

 If you hate a person, you hate something in him that is part of
yourself. What isn’t part of ourselves doesn’t disturb us....	—
Hermann Hesse

 A malicious man drinks his own poison, for malice is mental, moral and
physical suicide....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 Revenge is the poor delight of little minds....	— Juvenal

 Don’t hate, it’s too big a burden to bear....	— Martin L. King,
Sr.

 No one hates God without first hating himself....	— Fulton J. Sheen

 Men hate what they cannot understand....

 —Moses Ibn Ezra

 Hatred 	♦?	 232

 	

 We hate someone because we do notknow them; and we will not knowthem
because we hate them....

 —Charles C. Colton

 One does not hate as long as one has alow esteem of someone, but only
whenone esteems him as an equal orsuperior....  —Friedrich W.
Nietzsche

 Hatred is never anything but fear—ifyou feared no one you would hate
noone....	— Hugh Downs

 Heaven has no rage like love to hatredturned....	— William Congreave

 Hatred is the coward’s revenge forbeing intimidated....

 —George B. Shaw

 There is no phenomenon whichcontains so much destructive feeling
asmoral indignation, which permits....hateto be acted out under the
guise ofvirtue....	— George J. Nathan

 Never in this world can hatred bestilled by hatred; it will be stilled
onlyby non-hatred—this is the law eternal....

 —Gautama Buddha

 If you hate your enemies, you willcontract such a vicious habit of
mindthat it will break out upon those whoare your friends, or those who
areindifferent to you....	— Plutarch

 When our hatred is violent, it sinks useven beneath those we hate....

 —Francois La Rochefoucauld

 The pure, unadulterated love of oneperson can nullify the hatred
ofmillions....	— Mohandas Gandhi

 Hatred....is anger which has beenallowed to dwell in the mind until
ithas hardened like so much cement....

 —Napoleon Hill

 ♦?	 Health

 Hate and fear breed a poison in the blood, which if continued, affects
eyes, ears, nose and the organs of digestion. Therefore, it is not wise
to hear and remember the unkind things others might say about you....
— Pythagoras

 I shall never permit myself to stoop so low as to hate any man....

 —Booker T. Washington

 It is dangerous and harmful to be guided in our life’s course by
hatreds and aversions, for they are wasteful of energy and limit and
twist the mind and prevent it from perceiving the truth....	—
Jawaharlal Nehru

 Hating another is hating oneself, scorning another is but scorning
oneself....	— Bhagavad-Gita

 Hatred is an eternity withdrawn from love....	— Ludwig Boeme

 Put hatred into the world and we make it a literal hell....	— Ralph
W. Trine

 He that hates his brother is in darkness, and walks in darkness, and
knows not where he goes, because that darkness has blinded his eyes....

 —Paul of Tarsus

 Health

 T

 he foundation of success in life isgood health; that is the substra-

 tum of fortune; it is also the basis ofhappiness. A person cannot
accumulatea fortune very well when he is sick. Hehas no ambition; no
incentive; noforce....	—P.	 T.	Bamum

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Health	*	2

 I was never in a hurry in my life. He lives long who enjoys life and
bears no jealousy of others, whose heart harbors no malice or anger, who
sings a lot and cries a little, who rises and retires with the sun, who
likes to work, and who knows how to  rest....(16&year-old-man)
—Shirali Mislimov

 If you want to enjoy health, start this very moment to cleanse your
consciousness of all wrong thinking and rid it of every thought except
the thought of LOVE....

 —James B. Schafer

 Our ignorance in attaining health lies chiefly in not knowing what to
put in our stomachs....	— Lillian Taylor

 Your body has natural healing capacities that nobody in the field of
medicine can pretend ultimately to understand. If you break a bone it
will heal itself. All the doctor does is make sure the pieces of the
bone are properly set back together.... — Wayne Dyer

 The art of medicine consists of amusing the patient while Nature cures
the disease....	— Voltaire

 Poor health is not caused by something you don’t have; it’s caused
by disturbing something that you already have. Healthy is not something
that you need to get, it’s something you have already if you don’t
disturb it....

 —Dean Ornish

 Extreme remedies are very appropriate for extreme diseases.... —
Hippocrates

 The great secret of medicine, known to doctors but still hidden from
the public, is that most things get better by themselves....	— Lewis
Thomas

 3 *	Health

 To avoid sickness, eat less; to prolong life, worry less....	— Chu
Hui Weng

 Few people can fail to generate a self- healing process when they
become genuinely involved in healing others....

 —Theodore I. Rubin

 Body and soul cannot be separated for purposes of treatment, for they
are one and indivisible. Sick minds must be healed as well as sick
bodies....

 —C. Jeff Miller

 Healing proceeds from the depths to the heights....	— Carl Jung

 Thousands upon thousands of persons have studied disease. Almost no one
has studied health....  —Adele Davis

 Illness is nothing but an accumulation of foreign matter in the body,
and if you want to cure your body you have to clean out that foreign
matter. This is the true understanding of health: purity....	— Omraam
M. Aivanhov

 Illnesses hover constantly about us— they are seeds blown by the
wind, but they do not take root in the body unless it is ready to
receive them....

 —Claude Bernard

 Health and cheerfulness mutually beget each other....	— Joseph
Addison

 There is no physician like a cheerful thought for dissipating the ills
of the body....	— James Allen

 It’s supposed to be a professional secret, but I’ll tell you
anyway. We doctors do nothing. We only help and encourage the doctor
within....We are at best when we give the doctor who resides within each
patient a chance to go to work....	-— Albert Schweitzer

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065    Health	*	2 

 	

 Man is ill because he is never still....

 —Paracelsus

 When health is absent, wisdom cannot reveal itself, art cannot become
manifest, strength cannot be exerted, wealth is useless and reason is
powerless....	— Herophilies

 There exists in every person a place that is free from disease, that
never feels pain, that cannot age or die. When you go to this place,
limitations which all of us accept cease to exist. They are not even
entertained as a possibility. This is a place called perfect health....

 —Deepak Chopra

 He who has health, has hope; and with hope one has everything....

 —Jewish proverb

 The more I can love everything—the trees, the land, the water, my
fellow men, women and children, and myself—the more health I am going
to experience and the more of myself I am going to be....	— Carl
Simonton

 To become a thoroughly good man is the first prescription for keeping a
sound mind in a sound body....

 —Francis Bacon

 When we begin to trust ourselves more, the body begins to renew itself
and becomes healthy and filled with life energy....	— Shakti Gawain

 Health is certainly more valuable than money because it is by health
that money is procured....

 —Samuel Johnson

 Your health is bound to be affected if, day after day, you say the
opposite of what you feel, if you grovel before what you dislike and
rejoice at what brings you nothing but misfortune....

 —Boris Pasternak

 i *	Health

 Half the spiritual difficulties that men and women suffer arise from a
morbid state of health....	— Henry W. Beecher

 Ignorance is disease. Realizaion is health....What is medicine? God’s
name....	— Papa Ramdas

 If you want to be healthy, do not imagine so vain a thing as
decrepitude. Make your body perfect by seeing perfection in it.
Transient patching-up with lotions and external applications is foolish;
the work must be inner transformation....	— Charles Fillmore

 Give me health and a day, and I will make ridiculous the pomp of
emperors....The first wealth is health. Sickness is poor-spirited and
cannot serve anyone....	— Ralph W. Emerson

 The greatest irritant to most people is not a lack of money or status,
but ill health. Nothing shines brightly if we do not feel well....	—
Margaret Stortz

 It is health which is real wealth and not pieces of gold and silver....

 —Mohandas Gandhi

 There is no curing a sick man who believes himself in health....

 —Henri F. Amiel

 There are incurable patients but no incurable diseases, for when their
causes are removed, the symptoms will disappear like shadows before
sunshine and there will be nothing left to cure....	— J.	T. Work

 Every acute disease is not destructive, not an enemy to be dreaded, but
a friend and helper if properly treated....

 —Henry Lindlahr

 The secret of longevity largely lies in eating intelligently....

 —Gayelord Hauser

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Health

 235

 -  ‘c^V -

 Health

 The secret of health is a pure heart and a well-ordered mind....	—
James Allen

 The greatest force in the human body is the natural drive of the body
to heal itself—but that force is not independent of the belief
system....Everything begins....with belief. What we believe is the most
powerful option of all....

 —Norman Cousins

 Fear kills more than disease....

 —George Herbert

 Talk health. The dreary, never-changing tale of mortal maladies is worn
and stale. You cannot charm, or interest, or please by harping on that
minor chord, disease....	— Ella Wheeler Wilcox

 Look to your health and if you have it, praise God and value it next to
a good conscience....	— Izaak Walton

 Everyone should be his own physician. We ought to assist and not force
nature. Eat with moderation what agrees with your constitution. Nothing
is good for the body but what we can digest. What medicine can produce
digestion? Exercise. What will recruit strength? Sleep. What will
alleviate incurable ills? Patience....	— Voltaire

 The truest health is to be able to get along without it.... — Robert
L. Stevenson

 The natural healing force within each of us is the greatest force in
getting well....	— Hippocrates

 Health is the groundwork for all happiness....	— Leigh Hunt

 Health enables us to serve purpose in our life, but it is not the
purpose in life. One can serve purpose with impaired health....	—
Rachel N. Remen

 cite

 The causes of health, as the causes of sickness, are very many, but
among the forces which we tend to keep us in health, will be a faith
which is extended to a real expectation of God’s goodness in every
department of our being....

 —William Temple

 To wish to be healthy is a part of being healthy....	— Seneca

 Man can be certified as healthy only when he is fully conscious of his
reality and is gladly striving to reach it....

 —Sathya Sai Baba

 All pleasures are tasteless without health. Sickness serves gruel....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 Among all my patients in the second half of life—that is to say, over
thirty- five—there has not been one whose problem in the last resort
was not that of finding a religious outlook on life. It is safe to say
that every one of them fell ill because he had lost that which the
living religions of every age have given their followers, and none of
them have been really healed who did not regain his religious
outlook....	— Carl Jung

 Health is not a condition of matter, but of Mind; nor can the material
senses bear reliable testimony on the subject of health....	— Mary
Baker Eddy

 A  disease is caused whenever a sense of separation from God takes
place. It may appear as a dis eased body, a dis-eased bank account, a
dis eased relationship, but no matter what form it takes, any disease
represents exclusion from God....	— Walter Starcke

 A  merry heart does good like medicine....	— Old Testament

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Health 	♦?	 236 	♦?	 Health

 	“iflpc	

 The time will come when the work of the physician will not be to treat
and attempt to heal the body, but to heal the mind, which in turn will
heal the body....The true physician will be a teacher; his work will be
to keep people well, instead of trying to heal them after sickness....
— Ralph W. Trine

 Prevention is always preferable to cure....	— Anonymous

 Say you are well, or all is well with you, and God shall hear your
words and make them true.... — Ella Wheeler Wilcox

 Cheerfulness is the principal ingredient in the composition of
health....

 —Arthur Murphy

 Without health life is not life; it is only a state of languor and
suffering—an image of death....	— Francois Rabelais

 If I had my way I’d make health catching instead of disease....

 —Robert Ingersoll

 The greatest mistake a man can make is to sacrifice health for any
other advantage 	— Arthur Schopenhauer

 Most illnesses do not, as is generally thought, come like a bolt out of
the blue. The ground is prepared for years, through faulty diets,
intemperance, overwork, and moral conflicts, slowly eroding the
subject’s vitality....

 —Paul Tourier

 Health is the thing that makes you feel that now is the best time of
the year....

 —Franklin P. Adams

 He who has health has hope; and he who has hope, has everything....

 —Arabian proverb

 Health is not physical or material but is spiritual. Behind the normal
habit of mental and physical action lies a Mind consciously alive with
the Life of good- active with the activity of the spirit....

 —William R. Miller

 Nature, time and patience are the three great physicians....	— Irish
proverb

 Health is the greatest of all possessions; a pale cobbler is better
than a sick king....	— Isaac Bickerstaff

 The preservation of health is a duty. Few seem conscious that there is
such a thing as physical morality....

 —Herbert Spencer

 An important first step in the process of healing is the removing of
value judgements. Being ill is not “bad” and being well is not
“good.” To judge it— and yourself—is a mistake....

 —David Koffman

 Health is so necessary to all duties, as well as the pleasures of life,
that the crime of squandering it is equal to folly....	— Samuel
Johnson

 Health is the soul that animates all the enjoyments of life, which fade
and are tasteless without it....

 —William Temple

 We live longer than our forefathers; but we suffer more, from a
thousand artificial anxieties and cares....

 —Edward Bulwer-Lytton

 Arise and accept an antidote to ward off old age and death; it is the
knowledge that all wealth and prosperity, all pleasures and enjoyments
are harmful to us unless devoted to the good of others; they tend only
to sicken and enervate our frames....

 —Yoga Vasistha

 Health	*	237	*	Heart

  	

 The first duty of a physician is that heshould do the sick no harm....

 —Hippocrates

 There is this difference between twotemporal blessings—health and
money;money is the most envied, but the leastenjoyed; health is the most
enjoyed, butthe least envied....	— -Charles C. Colton

 Think health, talk health, visualizehealth and better health will be
yourreward....	— Paavo Airola

  M 

  Heart 

 hatever comes from the heartquietly touches every other

 heart....	— Anonymous

 Keep your heart above the world, and you will not be troubled by the
changes in it....	— Brilliana Harley

 Nothing is impossible to a valiant heart....	— Jeanne d’Albret

 The only thing that makes one place more attractive....than another is
the quality of heart in it....

 —Jane W. Carlyle

 This is the wonderful thing about the pure in heart—they do see
God....

 —Corra M. Harris

 When you stop believing in your heart you are but a sterile vessel
wandering in the wilderness....

 —Francis Hegmeyer

 Man is nothing when his heart is empty....	— Martin Gray

 To avoid being fascinated by men and women we must never give our whole
heart to changeable and perishable individualities. Let us love the
immortal virtues and eternal flower of beauty which we see in transient
creatures....	 —Eliphas Levi

 When the heart speaks, glory itself is an illusion....	— Napoleon
Bonaparte

 When man has purified his heart by faith, he needs no middleman to
intercede. He is on friendly terms with God....	— The Aquarian Gospel

 If you keep your heart immersed always in the ocean of divine love,
your heart is sure to remain ever full to overflowing with the waters of
the divine love....	— Ramakrishna

 The course of human history is determined, not by what happens in the
skies, but by what takes place in the hearts of men....	— Arthur Keith

 Do not let the ways of the world dismay your heart....	— Ramayana

 Why do you read many books? It is of no use. The great book is within
your heart. Open the pages of this inexhaustible book, the source of all
knowledge. You will know everything....

 —Sivananda

 Blessed are the pure in heart for they will see God....	— Jesus

 When God measures a man, He puts the tape around the heart instead of
the head....	— Anonymous

 If wrinkles must be written upon our brows, let them not be written
upon the heart. The spirit should not grow old....	— James A. Garfield

 God wants the heart....	The worst prison would be a closed

 —The Talmud  heart....	— Pope John Paul II

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Heart	*	238 	♦?	 Heart

  •***•	

 A pure heart is the end of all religion and the beginning of
divinity....

 —James Allen

 Hear this: God can only exist in the heart of man, not elsewhere....

 —Nisargadatta

 The love that pulses in the cave of the heart does not depend on
anything outside. It is completely independent....

 —Muktananda

 Is not the heart of man a vast solitude into which nothing
penetrates?...

 —Gustave Flaubert

 ‘Heart’ is merely another name for the Supreme Spirit, because He
is in all hearts....The entire Universe is condensed in the body, and
the entire body in the Heart. Thus the Heart is the nucleus of the whole
Universe....

 —Ramana Maharshi

 The heart that breaks open can contain the whole universe....	—
Joanna Macy

 The crisis of our time, as we are beginning slowly and painfully to
perceive, is a crisis not of the hands but of the hearts....	—
Archibald MacLeish

 The highest good is a good heart, the greatest evil, an evil heart....

 —Arak Eleazar

 The logic of the heart is absurd....

 —Julie de Lespinasse

 A  perfect mind comes from a perfect heart, not the heart known by a
doctor’s stethoscope but the heart which is the seat of God....

 —Mohandas Gandhi

 In every heart there dwelleth a Sage; only man will not steadfastly
believe it....	— Wang Yang Ming

 It is only with the heart that one can see rightly; what is essential
is invisible to the eye....

 —Antoine de Saint-Exupery

 It is more fatal to neglect the heart than the head....	— Theodore
Parker

 The heart has always the pardoning power....	— Ann S. Swetchine

 What comes from the heart, goes to the heart....	— Samuel T.
Coleridge

 You need seek God neither below nor above. He is no farther away than
the door of the heart....

 —Meister Eckhart

 Never, never, never will the intellect possess a monopoly over the
heart....

 —Luigi Luzzatti

 The heart sees better than the eye....

 —Hebrew proverb

 If you indeed desire a heart you must earn it....	— The Wizard of Oz

 The heart has its arguments with which the logic of the mind is not
acquainted....	— Blaise Pascal

 What the heart has once owned and had, it can never lose....

 —Henry W. Beecher

 The same heart beats in every human breast....	— Matthew Arnold

 The heart of a good man is the sanctuary of God in this world....

 —Madame Necker

 The heart is stretched through suffering, and enlarged....

 —Thomas R. Kelly

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Heart 	♦?	 239	*	Heart

   	

 Many flowers open to the sun, but only one follows him constantly.
Heart, be thou the sunflower; not only open to receive God’s
blessings, but constant in looking to him....

 —Jean Paul Richter

 The human heart....opens only to the heart that opens in return....

 —Maria Edgeworth

 The heart sometimes finds out things that reason cannot....	— Robert
Benson

 Know that the greatest things which are done on earth are done within,
in the hearts of faithful souls....

 —Louis de Montfort

 The heart is the best logician....

 —Wendell Phillips

 Where your treasure is, there will your heart be also....	— Jesus

 A  kind heart is a fountain of gladness, making everything in its
vicinity to freshen into smiles....

 —Washington Irving

 Open the doors of your heart, so that the Sun may shine through and
disinfect the vices therein and illumine its corners....	— Sathya Sai
Baba

 When your heart is full of God, naturally there is no other thought in
it. That is renunciation—to have no desire for anything in the
world....

 —Papa Ramdas

 The spirit of life....dwells in the secret chamber of the heart....

 —Dante Alighieri

 Even the poorest heart has some jewel on which it hangs.... — Karl E.
Franzos

 Enter into your heart and labor in the presence of God who is always
present there to help you. Fix your loving attention upon Him without
any desire to feel or hear anything of God....

 —John of the Cross

 God has created us for Himself, and our heart cannot be quieted until
it finds repose in Him....	— Augustine

 The heart of a wise man should resemble a mirror which reflects every
object without being affected in any way....	— Confucius

 Man’s heart is the central point and heaven the circumference....

 —Shabistari

 When the heart is won, the understanding is easily convinced....

 —Charles Simmons

 I am seated in the hearts of all....

 — Bhagavad-Gita

 God’s rendezvous with man takes place in the heart....	— Anonymous

 In a full heart there is room for everything, and in an empty heart
there is room for nothing....

 —Antonio Porchia

 A  man has many skins in himself, covering the depths of his heart. Man
knows so many other things: he does not know himself....Go into your own
ground and learn to know yourself....

 —Meister Eckhart

 The heart of man is older than his head....	— Frederick W. Ziegler

 Great hearts send forth steadily the secret forces that incessantly
draw great events....	— Ralph W. Emerson

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Heart	*	240 	♦?	 Heart

  •***■?	

 We must alter our lives in order to alter our hearts, for it is
impossible to live one way and pray another....

 —William Law

 The heart of humanity has strings in all hearts....	— Eliphas Levi

 Prayer enlarges the heart....

 —Mother Teresa

 The heart of the fool is in his mouth, but the mouth of the wise man is
in his heart....	— Benjamin Franklin

 Our heart is in heaven, our home is not here....	— Reginald Heber

 Only when the heart becomes purified through the practice of spiritual
disciplines does a man attain to wisdom....

 —Ramakrishna

 Let him who desires to see God wipe his mirror and cleanse his
heart....

 —Richard of Saint-Victor

 When we know how to read our own hearts, we acquire wisdom of the
hearts of others....	— Denis Diderot

 God has two dwellings: one in heaven and the other in a meek and
thankful heart....	— Izaak Walton

 Surely a man has come to himself only when he has found the best that
is in him, and has satisfied his heart with the highest achievement he
is fit for. It is only then that he knows what his heart demands....	—
Woodrow Wilson

 Only where the heart is, can the treasure be found.... — James M.
Barrie

 The world’s battlefields are in the heart....	— Henry W. Beecher

 Find the god in your own heart and you will understand by direct
intuition what all the great teachers, real mystics, true philosophers
and inspired men have been trying to tell you by the tortuous method of
using words....

 —Paul Brunton

 To give one’s heart is to give all....

 —Mohandas Gandhi

 Nothing is less in our power than the heart and, far from commanding,
we are forced to obey it....

 —Jean J. Rousseau

 The path of the heart is the path of power....	— Douglas Bloch

 Great ideas come from the heart....

 —Luc de Clapiers Vauvenargues

 All great discoveries are made by men whose feelings run ahead of their
thinking....	—C.  H. Parkhurst

 Your heart attaches itself again and again to objects. You have to know
how to keep the connection with your origins....	— Ilahi Nama

 There never was any heart truly great that was not also tender and
compassionate....	 —Robert South

 As a man thinketh in his heart, so he is....	 —Old Testament

 God and the devil are fighting....and the battleground is the heart of
man....

 —Fyodor Dostoyevsky

 The heart of man and the bottom of the sea are unfathomable....

 —Jewish proverb

 The heart....is of itself but little, yet great things cannot fill
it....

 —Thomas Dekker

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Heart 	♦?	 2

 God conceals himself from the mind of man, but reveals himself to the
heart....

 —The Zohar

 It is the heart that perceives God and not the reason....	— Blaise
Pascal

 Trust your heart....Never deny it a hearing. It is the kind of house
oracle that often foretells the most important....	— Baltasar Grecian

 A pure heart is one that is unencumbered, unworried, uncommitted and
which does not want its own way about anything but which, rather, is
submerged in the loving will of God....

 —Meister Eckhart

 Each heart is a world. You find all within yourself that you find
without. The world that surrounds you is the magic glass of the world
within you....

 —John K. Lavater

 Though a wealthy man with a large estate has many rooms in which to
dwell, he has one favorite sitting room in which he delights in being.
The Lord loves to dwell in the chamber of the heart of man....	—
Ramakrishna

 The person who attaches more importance to externals than to the heart
is a narrow-minded spirit....

 -—Allan Kardec

 Hearts are like flowers; they remain open to the softly falling dew,
but shut up in the violent downpour of rain....

 —Jean Paul Richter

 All God wants of man is a peaceful heart....	— Meister Eckhart

 The greatness of man does not lie in his vast riches, exalted position,
and name and fame, but in the qualities of the heart. If his heart is
pure, free, forgiving, compassionate and humble, then he is great....
— Papa Ramdas

 Heaven & Hell

 &

  Heaven & Hell 

 H

 eaven cannot be a place wherewe go when we die. If there were

 such a place, it wouldn’t be heaven anylonger after we got
there....Heaven is astate of mind....	— Elinor MacDonald

 The “kingdom of Heaven” is a condition of the heart—not something
that “comes upon the earth” or “after death.”...	— Friedrich
W. Nietzsche

 Heaven, the treasury of everlasting joy....	— William Shakespeare

 The mind is its own place, and in itself can make a heaven of hell, and
a hell of heaven....	— John Milton

 The “Kingdom of Heaven” is in the heart of those who realize God
and the whole purpose of life is to make God a reality. Verily, it is
simpler to find a way to Heaven than to find one’s way on earth....
— Hazrat Inayat Khan

 Better to go to Heaven in rags than to go to Hell in embroidery....

 —Thomas Fuller

 There is no hell. Hell is only what the ego has made of the present.
The belief in hell is what prevents you from understanding the
present....

 —A  Course In Miracles

 Heaven is a palace with many doors, and each may enter in his own
way....

 —Hindu saying

 God is in heaven. That heaven is in your heart. You will find Him
there. But you have to purify your heart first....	— Sivananda

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890       shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890    
  shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Heaven & Hell

 242

 - ‘XfV -

 Heaven & Hell

 Heaven is lost merely for the lack of perception of harmony. Hell is a
phantom abode of our morbid perceptions. Heaven and Hell are states of
consciousness....	— Ernest Holmes

 The Kingdom of Heaven is perfect trust, perfect knowledge, perfect
peace. All is music, sweetness, and tranquility. No irritations, no bad
tempers, no harsh words, no suspicions, no lust, and no disturbing
elements can enter there....It is literally true that when men die they
“go to heaven and hell,” in accordance with their deeds. But the
heaven and hell are in this world....

 —James Allen

 Hell is synonymous with suffering; but....not a furnace....	— Allan
Kardec

 Imagine heaven requiring love for everyone, no exceptions, and you
having the capacity to make it happen....	— Wayne Dyer

 We do not drift to Heaven. It is necessary to take command of the helm,
face the winds of adversity....We must visualize our goal, chart our
way, then hold to the course at all hazards....

 —Alice H. Rice

 A  guilty conscience is a hell on earth, and points to one beyond....

 —Francis Beaumont

 He who offends against Heaven has none to whom he can pray....Heaven
means to be one with God....

 —Confucius

 The kingdom of heaven is not isolation of good from evil. It is the
overcoming of good from evil....

 —Alfred N. Whitehead

 Heaven and hell can both be found here and now as well as in the
hereafter....	— Morton T. Kelsey

 The door to Hell is locked from the inside....	— James A. Pike

 There seems to be the same difference between hell, purgatory, and
heaven as between despair, uncertainty, and assurance....	— Martin
Luther

 Hell has three doors: lust, anger and greed....	— Bhagavad-Gita

 There is no heaven but clarity, no hell except confusion.... — Jan
Struther

 We make our own heaven or our own hell, and the only heaven or hell
that will ever be ours is that of our own making....	— Ralph W. Trine

 If men believe....that this present earth is the only heaven, they will
strive all the more to make heaven of it....

 —Arthur Keith

 Heaven is like an egg and the earth is like the yolk of an egg....

 —Chang Heng

 A  full stomach is heaven; the rest is luxury....	— Chinese proverb

 The net of heaven has large meshes and yet nothing escapes it....	—
Lao-tzu

 Earth has no sorrow that Heaven cannot heal....	— Thomas Moore

 The true heaven is everywhere, even in the very place you stand and
go....

 —Jakob Bohme

 I believe in heaven and hell—on earth....

 —Abraham L. Feinberg

 Hell is not to love anymore....

 —George Bemaos

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065    Heaven & Hell	*	243	*	Heaven	&
Hell 

   	

 A good man is influenced by God himself, and has a kind of divinity
within him; so it may be a question whether he goes to heaven, or heaven
comes to him....	— Seneca

 Realize heaven is a perfect state of consciousness, a perfect world
here on earth now, and all we need to do is accept it....	— Baird
Spalding

 Earth cannot escape heaven. Flee it by going up, or flee it by going
down, heaven still invades earth, energizes it, makes it sacred. All
hiding places reveal God. If you want to escape God, He runs in your
lap. For God is at home. It is we who have gone out for a walk....

 —Meister Eckhart

 Heaven is but the vision of fulfilled desire. And hell the shadow from
a soul on fire....	— Omar Khayyam

 We can gain the Kingdom of Heaven by having the Kingdom of Heaven in
our hearts....	— Elbert Hubbard

 Hell is nothing but self-will, and if there be no self-will there would
be no Devil and no hell.... — Theologica Germanica

 The existence of heaven or hell, or whatever it is, is on this earth
only....

 —Nisargadatta

 Discover the joy in the now, some of the peace in the here, some of the
love in me and thee which go to make up the kingdom of heaven on
earth....

 —Anne Morrow Lindbergh

 Heaven and hell are inward states. Sink into self and all its
gratifications, and you sink into hell; rise above self into that state
of consciousness which is the utter denial and forgetfulness of self,
and you enter heaven....

 —James Allen

 The only thing I could say for sure is that hell means separation from
God....

 —Billy Graham

 Hell is the ego with its own satisfied wishes....	— Fulton J. Sheen

 One’s joy is one’s heaven and one’s sorrow is one’s hell....

 —Sathya Sai Baba

 Heaven is doing good from good-will; hell is doing evil from
ill-will....

 —Emanuel Swedenborg

 The miles to heaven are but few and short....	— Samuel Rutherford

 The kingdom of heaven is within you....

 —Jesus

 If the way to heaven be narrow, it is not long; and if the gate be
strait, it opens into endless life....

 —William Beveridge

 Heaven and hell are states of being. Heaven is being in harmony with
God’s will; hell is being out of harmony with God’s will. You can be
in either state on either side of life. There is no permanent
hell....Heaven is only one thought away....	— Peace Pilgrim

 Love is heaven, and heaven is love....

 —Walter Scott

 We talk about Heaven being so far away. It is within speaking distance
to those who belong there....

 —Dwight D. Moody

 When you first learn to love hell, you will be in heaven.... —
Thaddeus Golas

 All the way to heaven is heaven....

 —Catherine of Siena

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Heaven & Hell

 ♦?  244  ♦?

 Heaven & Hell

 Put hatred into the world and we make it a literal hell. Put love into
the world and heaven with all its beauties and glories becomes a
reality....

 —Ralph W. Trine

 Nothing is farther than the earth from heaven; nothing is nearer than
heaven to earth....	— Julius and Augustas Hare

 It is possible for one person to be living in heaven and another in
hell and both be living under the same roof....

 —Anonymous

 Let us imagine a crossroads with one sign on the right pointing “to
heaven” and another on the left pointing to “lectures on heaven.”
The Easterner would turn right and go straight to heaven, when the
Westerner would turn left and attend the lectures....

 —Amaury de Riencourt

 You have your paintbrush and colors. Paint paradise, and in you go....

 —Nikos Kazantzakis

 Heaven is under our feet as well as over our heads....When you travel
to the Celestial City, carry no letters of introduction—When you
knock, ask to see God—none of the servants....

 —Henry D. Thoreau

 What is hell? I maintain that it is the suffering of being unable to
love....

 —Fyodor Dostoyevsky

 To appreciate heaven well ’tis good for a man to have some fifteen
minutes of hell....	— Will Carleton

 A fool’s paradise is a wise man’s hell....

 —Thomas Fuller

 You carry heaven and hell with you....

 —Ramana Maharshi

 Really good minds seem to have ....dissipated the clouds which
concealed the heaven from view, and they thus disclose to themselves and
to us a clear and blissful world of everlasting repose....	— Jean Paul
Richter

 We are all sons of heaven, wandering in a strange country, homesick for
our God-self, our true self....

 —Ernest Wilson

 Hell is truth seen too late—duty neglected in its season....

 —Tryon Edwards

 It is humility alone that makes the unpassable gulf between heaven and
hell....	— William Law

 One path leads to paradise, but a thousand to hell....	— Hebrew
proverb

 If you are not allowed to laugh in heaven, I do not want to go
there....

 —Martin Luther

 There is no hell but selfhood, no Paradise but selflessness....

 — Sa’idibn AbiTKhayr

 Heaven is the place where the donkey finally catches up with his
carrot; hell is the eternity while he waits for it....

 -—Russell Green

 Every man is received in heaven who receives heaven in himself while in
the world, and he is excluded who does not....	— Emanuel Swedenborg

 Hell is the stiff resistance to what is. Heaven is loving openness.
Hell is resistance. Heaven is acceptance....

 —Stephen Levine

 The foundation of heaven and hell is laid in men’s own souls....

 —John Smith, the Platonist

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065    Heaven & Hell 

 To reach the port of heaven we must sail sometimes with the wind and
sometimes against it—but we must sail, and not drift nor lie in
anchor....

 —Oliver W. Holmes

 There is no Hades; but all is full of God and Divine Beings....	—
Epictetus

 Every person is the maker of his own heaven and hell....

 —Elinor MacDonald

 I would rather be in hell and possess God, than be in the kingdom of
heaven without God....	— Tauler

 Heaven is perfection of all that can be said or thought....	— James
Shirley

 The idea that a good God would send people to a burning Hell is utterly
damnation to me. The ravings of insanity. Superstition gone to seed....

 —Luther Burbank

 Heaven lies about us in our infancy....

 —William Wordsworth

 Those who know what causes hell have found the way to the heaven of
truth....

 —Muruganar

 If there be a hell upon earth it is to be found in a melancholy man’s
heart....

 —Robert E. Burton

 A mind enlightened is heaven; a mind darkened is hell....	— Chinese
proverb

 Heaven would hardly be heaven if we could define it....

 —William E. Biederwolf

 Love of heaven is the only way to heaven....	— John H. Newman

 The kingdom of heaven is not a place, but a state of mind....

 —John Burroughs

 245 *	Here	& Now

 Heaven is not to be looked upon only as a reward, but as the natural
effect of a religious life....	— Joseph Addison

 Paradise is where 1 am....

 —Voltaire

 The kingdom of heaven is like unto a merchantman, seeking goodly
pearls, who when he had found one pearl of great price, went and sold
all that he had, and bought it....	— Jesus

 &

  Here & Now 

 T

 omorrow’s life is too late. Livetoday....	— Martial

 Real generosity towards the future lies in giving all to the
present....

 —Albert Camus

 Not living in the present is a form of denial. It’s easier to live in
the past or future because then you don’t have to be responsible for
the present....

 —Jane Hendrix

 Look forward and be hopeful, look backward and be thankful, look
downward and be helpful, look upward and be humble....	-— Anonymous

 Don’t think about the future. Just be here now. Don’t think about
the past. Just be here now....	— Ram Dass

 Seize today and put as little trust as you can in tomorrow....	—
Horace

 We are within a mystery, a dream of the moment, and the epitome of life
is to live ever present within it. Our past illusions and fantasies are
not relative to the present moment....Here and now is where all the
mystery lies hidden....

 —A Spiritual Warrior

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065    Here & Now 

 If we know that we are now at the point where we have always wanted to
be, we will be there....because we are never there but always here,
now!...

 —Paul Twitchell

 True happiness is....to enjoy the present, without anxious dependence
upon the future....	— Seneca

 All that is required to feel that here-and- now happiness is a simple,
frugal heart....	— Nikos Kaznntzakis

 Only in a hut built for the moment can one live without fear....

 —Kamo no Chomei

 Always hold fast to the present hour. Every state of duration, every
second, is of infinite value....

 —Johann W. Goethe

 It isn’t the experience of today that drives men mad. It is the
remorse for something that happened yesterday, and the dread of what
tomorrow may disclose....	— Robert Jones Burdette

 Today is yesterday’s pupil....

 —Thomas Fuller

 The present time has one advantage over every other—it is our own....

 —Charles C. Colton

 The future is purchased by the present....	— Samuel Johnson

 Every moment is a golden one for him who has the vision to recognize it
as such....	— Henry Miller

 Doing the best at the moment puts you in the best place for the next
moment....

 —Oprah Winfrey

 Today’s today. Tomorrow, we may be ourselves gone down the drain of
eternity....	— Euripides

  Here & Now 

 Never agonize over the past or worry over the future. Live this day and
live it well....	— Peace Pilgrim

 One should learn from the past but one should not live in the past. My
concern is to look to the future, learn from the past and deal with the
present....

 —George Fernandes

 Memories of the past and anticipation of the future exist only now, and
thus to try to live completely in the present is to strive for what
already is the case....	— Alan Watts

 He who has governed the world before I was born shall take care of it
likewise when I am dead. My part is to improve the present moment....
— John Wesley

 Forget the past. Don’t brood over it. Don’t plan too much for the
future. Try to move through the present serenely unaffected. Then you
will experience the peace that is ever present....

 —Chidananda

 As yesterday is history, and tomorrow may never come, I have resolved
from this day on, I will do all the business I can honestly, have all
the fun I can reasonably, do all the good I can willingly, and save my
digestion by thinking pleasantly....

 —Robert L. Stevenson

 You should not waste a moment of today on the rottenness of
yesterday....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 The art of life is to live in the present moment, and to make that
moment as perfect as we can by the realization that we are the
instruments and expression of God Himself....	— Emmet Fox

 Light tomorrow with today....

 —Elizabeth B. Browning

 ♦?  246  ♦?

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065    Here & Now 

 Now is the time to be doing, now is the time to be stirring, now is the
time to amend myself....

 —Thomas a Kempis

 No matter what looms ahead, you can eat today, enjoy the sunlight
today, mix good cheer with friends today; enjoy it and bless God for it.
Do not look back on happiness—dream of it in the future....	— Henry
W. Beecher

 I am not afraid of tomorrow, for I have seen yesterday and I love
today....

 —William A. White

 Today is the only time we can possibly live. Let’s not turn it into a
physical and mental hell by aimless worry about the future. Let’s also
stop fretting over the blunders we made yesterday....

 —Dale Carnegie

 I’ve shut the door on yesterday and thrown the key away. Tomorrow
holds no fear for me, since I have found today....	— Vivien Larrimore

 The present is passed over in the race for the future; the here is
neglected in favor of the there. Enjoy the moment, even if it means
merely a walk in the country....	— Anne Morrow Lindbergh

 We have lived today by what truth we can get today and be ready
tomorrow to call it falsehood....	— William James

 The art of enjoying every minute is to deal with only one minute at a
time....

 —Hilary Worth

 Realization is a moment by moment happening....There is no coming and
going, no birth and death, there is only right now and right here. But
no one can say what “here” is, or tell you what time is
“now”....

 —A Spiritual Warrior

  Here & Now 

 Hold every moment sacred. Give each clarity and meaning, each the
weight of thine awareness, each its true and due fulfillment....	—
Thomas Mann

 Do not waste your strength in grieving over the past or squander all
your energy to encompass the future. Do the real things of today and let
the rest go undone....	— William S. Sadler

 Nothing today need conform to anything of yesterday....

 —Jesse Jennings

 The present is the necessary product of all the past, the necessary
cause of all the future....	— Robert Ingersoll

 The farther backward you can look, the farther forward you can see....

 —Winston Churchill

 The time is now, the place is here. Stay in the present. You can do
nothing to change the past, and the future will never come exactly as
you plan or hope for....	— Dan Millman

 We must live today: he who lives tomorrow never lives. If you want to
live today, live for God, in whom yesterday and tomorrow are naught but
today....	— Marsilio Ficino

 Never regret yesterday. Life is in you today, and you make your
tomorrows....

 — L. Ron Hubbard

 I can feel guilty about the past, apprehensive about the future, but
only in the present can I act. The ability to be in the present moment
is a major component of mental wellness....

 —Abraham Maslow

 Live in the present. Do the things that need to be done. Do all the
good you can each day. The future will unfold....

 -—Peace Pilgrim

 * 247  ♦?

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Here & Now

 Live neither in the past nor in the future, but let each day’s work
absorb all your interest, energy and enthusiasm. The best preparation
for tomorrow is to do today’s work superbly well....	— William Osier

 One can best serve God with whatever one is doing at the present
moment....

 -—Hasidic saying

 One day at a time—this is enough. Do not look back and grieve over
the past, for it is gone; and do not be troubled about the future, for
it has not yet come. Live in the present, and make it so beautiful that
it would be worth remembering.... — Ida Scott Taylor

 Expecting is the greatest impediment to living. In anticipation of
tomorrow, it loses today....	— Seneca

 He who thinks to reach God by running away from the world, when and
where does he expect to meet him?...We are reaching him here in this
very spot, now at this very moment....

 —Rabindranath Tagore

 Nothing is worth more than this day....

 —Johann W. Goethe

 Each day comes bearing its gifts. Untie the ribbons....	— Ann Ruth
Schabacker

 To live with God is to live always in the present, with him who is the
eternal Now....	— John A. T. Robinson

 It is cheap generosity which promises the future in compensation for
the present....	— J. A. Spencer

 Shallow men speak of the past, wise men of the present, and fools of
the future....	— Mme. de Deffand

 Here & Now

 One of the most tragic things I know about human nature is that all of
us tend to put off living. We are all dreaming of some magical rose
garden over the horizon—instead of enjoying the roses that are
blooming outside our windows today....	— Dale Carnegie

 Today is a new day. You will get out of it just what you put into
it....

 —Mary Pickford

 Why fret for the future or dream of the past? My here-and-now spirit
has treasure so vast. It covers forever, eternity’s tone. Yet is
caught in one moment, a world of its own....

 — E. Cole Ingle

 As I get older I become aware of the folly of this perpetual reaching
after the future, and of drawing from tomorrow, and from tomorrow only,
a reason for the joyfulness of today....

 —William H. White

 Look to this day!...For yesterday is but a dream and tomorrow is only a
vision, but today well lived makes every yesterday a dream of happiness
and tomorrow a vision of hope....

 —Kalidasa

 If we are ever to enjoy life, now is the time—not tomorrow, nor next
year, nor in some future life after we have died....Today should always
be our most wonderful day....

 —Thomas Dreier

 Our main business is not to see what lies dimly at a distance, but to
do what lies clearly at hand....

 —Thomas Carlyle

 Yesterday is a cancelled check; tomorrow is a promissory note; today is
the only cash you have—spend it wisely....	— Kay Lyons

 ♦?  248  ♦?

 app

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Here & Now	*	2

 Sufficient it is to know that the way we lived our yesterday has
determined for us our today. And, again, when the morning with its fresh
beginning comes, all tomorrows should be tomorrows, with which we have
nothing to do. Sufficient to know that the way we live our today
determines our tomorrow....	— Ralph W. Trine

 Any man can fight the battles of today. Any woman can carry the burdens
of just one day. Any man can resist the temptations of today....

 —Robert Jones Burdette

 The present moment....has several dimensions....the present of things
past, the present of things present, and the present of things
future....

 —Augustine

 Let each one examine his thoughts, and he will find them all occupied
with the past and the future. We scarcely ever think of the present, and
if we think of it, it is only to take light from it to arrange the
future....	— Blaise Pascal

 Those who live in the future always appear selfish to those who live in
the present....	— Ralph W. Emerson

 Very few men....live at present, but are providing to live another
time....

 —Jonathan Swift

 We often try to banish gloom and despondency of the present by
speculating upon our chances of success in the future—a process that
leads us to invent a great many unreal hopes....

 —Arthur Schopenhauer

 The ‘past’ is only a memory and the ‘future’ is only a hope. It
is only the ‘present,’ the now, that means anything to us, as
presence is what we are...

 —Nisargadatta

  9  ♦?	 Hear	&	Now 

 ?  	

 Today is, for all that we know, the opportunity and occasion of our
lives. On what we do or say today may depend the success and
completeness of our entire life-struggle. It is for us, therefore, to
use every moment of today as if our very eternity were dependent on its
words and deeds....

 — Dr. Trumbull

 No mind is much employed upon the present; recollection and
anticipation fill up almost all our moments....

 —Samuel Johnson

 The present is a powerful deity....

 —Johann W. Goethe

 Above all, we cannot afford not to live in the present. He is blessed
over all mortals who loses no moment of the passing life in remembering
the past....

 —Henry D. Thoreau

 Knowing what to do next week is not as important as knowing what to do
at this very moment....	— Anonymous

 Our latest moment is always our supreme moment....

 —Samuel Butler

 Unhappiness exists only as a reflection or regret about the past or as
an anticipation or worry toward the future. It does not exist right now,
in this moment.. — Barry N. Kaufman

 Begin to be now what you will be hereafter.... — Eusebius Hieronymus

 The greatest loss of time is delay and expectation, which depend upon
the future. We let go of the present, which we have in our power, and
look forward to that which depends upon chance, and so relinquish a
certainty for an uncertainty....	— Seneca

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Here & Now	*	2

 The load of tomorrow, added to that of yesterday, carried today, makes
the strongest falter. We must learn to shut out the future as tightly as
the past....

 —William Osier

 &

  Humility 

 T

 he individual never asserts him-self more than when he forgets

 himself....	— Andre Gide

 No one should be our inferior. One who has learned to be inferior will
become superior to all....

 —Ramana Maharshi

 If you don’t know, you are pure. Not knowing is purity. Then you are
humble. If you know, you are not pure....

 —Yoga Swami

 Humility must always be doing its work like a bee making its honey in
the hive: without humility all will be lost....

 —Teresa of A vila

 The key to my life is that I am willing to make an ass out of
myself....

 —Harry Chapin

 Humble righteousness is nine-tenths of the Egoless State....

 —Lakshmana Sarma

 All streams flow to the ocean because it is lower than they are.
Humility gives it its power....	— Lao-tzu

 Humility is the recognition that what you don’t know is more than
what you do know....	— Anonymous

 Go and sit in the last place and then you will be invited to take the
first....

 —Jesus

 0	   *	Humility 

 Never forget the hard times and the early days. Always remember where
you came from....

 —David Liederman

 1	  would rather have men ask why 1 have no statue than why I have
one....

 —Cato the Elder

 It is our emptiness and lowliness that God needs and not our
fullness....

 —Mother Teresa

 Looking foolish does the spirit good. The need not to look foolish is
one of youth’s many burdens; as we get older we are exempted more and
more, and float upward heedlessly, singing: “Thanks be to God that I
am what I am.”...	— John Updike

 The nail that sticks up will be hammered down....	— Japanese proverb

 If thou wouldst be exalted, humble thyself before God, who humbles the
exalted and exalts the humble....

 —Ahikar

 Earthly crowns are dross to him who looks for a heavenly one....

 —Jane Porter

 Ask too much and it shall be denied you, knock too loudly and it shall
not be opened unto you, seek impatiently and you shall not find it....

 — WiU. Durant

 The richest pearl in the....crown of graces is humility....	— John M.
Good

 The beloved of the Almighty are the rich who have the humility of the
poor, and the poor who have the magnanimity of the rich....	— Saadi

 Stronger by weakness wiser men become....	— Edmund Waller

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Humility

 Humility is truth....	— Erasmus

 It is far more impressive when others discover your good qualities
without your help....	— Judith S. Nartin

 Forgetfulness of self is remembrance of God....	 —Bayazid	Al-bistami

 The gods love the obscure and hate the obvious....	— The Upanishads

 I have found some of the best reasons....for remaining at the bottom
simply by looking at the men at the top....	— Frank Colby

 Humility is the path of immortality. Vanity is the path of births and
deaths....	— Sivananda

 The more you are reduced, the more powerful you become....In humility
there is greatness and power....

 —John Panama

 If you are going to bow, bow low....

 —Eastern proverb

 When one says humility, he necessarily implies simplicity; for the two
always go hand in hand. The one is born of the other....	— Ralph W.
Trine

 Lowliness is the foundation of loftiness....	— Lao-tzu

 He who truly knows himself is lowly in his own eyes.... — Thomas a
Kempis

 Humility is indeed only another name for non-egotism.... —
BhagavanDas

 True humility is not an abject, groveling, self-despising spirit—it
is but a right estimate of ourselves as God sees us....	 —Tryon
Edwards

 251  ♦?	 Humility

 	

 Humility is the highest of all virtues.You can destroy your egotism
bydeveloping this virtue alone. You caninfluence people. You can become
amagnet to attract the world. It must begenuine. Feigned humility is
hypocrisy....

 —Robert Collier

 The first quality or virtue we have todevelop, before we aspire to have
God,is humility....You have in fact tounlearn what you have learnt.
Youmust become simple, unsophisticated,and childlike....	— Papa Ramdas

 Every path that leads to the “kingdomof heaven within” must
eventually passthrough the valley of humility....

 —Anonymous

 Humility is the eternal fountain ofenergy....	— Vimala Thakar

 Humility is the richest jewel you canwear....	— Paramananda

 God can do great things through theman who doesn’t care who gets
thecredit....	— Robert Schuller

 The less a man thinks of himself, themore he thinks of his good luck
and ofall the miraculous gifts of God. Forthere is no way a man can earn
a star,or desire a sunset....

 —Edmond Bordeaux

 Where there is humility and patience,there is neither anger nor
vexation....

 —Francis of Assisi

 No need to discount yourself in orderto achieve humility; neither can
youattain humility by overestimating whatyou are. Humility is your
correctweight; no more, no less....

 —Fred Van Arnburgh

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Humility	*	2

 I believe the first test of a truly great man is humility....

 —John Ruskin

 Before honor is humility....

 —Old Testament

 One must be able to strip oneself of all self-deception, to see oneself
naked to one’s own eyes, before one can come to terms with the
elements of oneself and know who one really is....

 —Frances Wickes

 Teach thy tongue to say, “I do not know,” and thou shalt
progress....

 —Maimonides

 The way to make a good impression on other people is: Never “try”
to make a good impression on them. Never act, or fail to act, purely for
consciously contrived effect....	— Maxwell Maltz

 Humility in action is universal consciousness....	— Yogi Bhajan

 Desire to sow no seed for your own harvesting; desire only to sow that
seed the fruit of which will feed the world....

 —Mabel Collins

 Humility, like darkness, reveals the heavenly lights....	— Henry
D.Thoreau

 The bell never rings of itself; unless someone handles or moves it, it
is silent....	— Plautus

 Humility is not weakness; it is the epitome of strength. Humility moves
a person away from human, personal weakness and limitation into divine
expression, strength and expansion....

 —Donald Curtis

 The less a man thinks or knows about his virtues the better we like
him....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 2 ♦?	 Humility

 If two angels were sent down from heaven—one to conduct an empire,
and the other to sweep a street—they would feel no inclination to
change employments....	— John Newton

 He who asks of life nothing but the improvement of his own nature, and
a continuous good progress towards inner contentment and spiritual
submission, is less likely than anyone else to miss and waste life....

 —Henri F. Amiel

 To be humble to superiors, is duty; to equals, is courtesy; to
inferiors, is nobleness; and to all, safety; it being a virtue that, for
all its lowliness, commandeth those it stoops to....

 —Thomas More

 A man who really understands the strength of his position will never
fail to be humble in his apology....

 —Margery Wilson

 The most powerful weapon to conquer evil is humility. For evil does not
know at all how to employ it, nor does it know how to defend itself
against it....

 —Vincent de Paul

 One who is meek and humble, who regards himself as the lowest of the
low can easily swim across the ocean of this world....	— Maharaj C.
Singh

 Modesty and humility are the sobriety of the mind, as temperance and
chastity are of the body....

 —Benjamin Whichote

 We ought not to lead events, but to follow them....	— Epictetus

 Be willing to be a beginner every single morning....	— Meister
Eckhart

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Humility

 Humility is the acceptance of thepossibility that someone else can
teachyou something else you do not knowalready, especially about
yourself.Conversely, pride and arrogance close thedoor to the mind....
— Arthur Deikman

 Humility should make the possessorrealize that he is as nothing....

 —Mohandas Gandhi

 Be not arrogant because of yourknowledge, but confer with the ig-norant
man as with the learned....

 —Ptahhotpe

 Do not consider yourself to have madeany spiritual progress, unless
youaccount yourself the least of allmen....Resolve to do the will of
othersrather than your own. Always choose topossess less rather than
more. Alwaystake the lowest plane, and regardyourself as less than
others....

 —Thomas a Kempis

 No man is humble who does notbelieve in God....	— Fulton J. Sheen

 True humility involves opposites. Thetruly humble work in silence.
Becausethey do not speak of their accom-plishments, credit for them can
neverbe taken away....	— Lao-tzu

 He who is sincere, though simple, isfurther advanced on the divine
roadthan he who tries to appear what he isnot....	— Allan Kardec

 A humble person can walk with kingsand keep his or her virtue and talk
withthe crowds and keep the commontouch....	— Anonymous

 Humility is not thinking of ourselves asless than we are, or more than
we are,

 but just as we are....

 —Aubrey P. Andelin

  253  ♦?	 Humility 

 ■?spr	

 I asked God for strength that I mightachieve. I was made weak that I
mightlearn humbly to obey. I asked forhealth that I might do greater
things. Iwas given infirmity that I might dobetter things. I asked for
riches that Imight be happy. I was given povertythat I might be wise. I
asked for powerthat I might have the praise of men. Iwas given weakness
that I might feelthe need of God. I asked for all thingsthat I might
enjoy life. I was given lifethat I might enjoy all things. I gotnothing
that I asked for, but everythingI hoped for. Almost despite myself,
myunspoken prayers were answered. I am,among all men, most richly
blessed....

 -—The Prayer of an UnknownConfederate Soldier

 Only those who feel good about whothey are can express humility....

 —Sanaya Roman

 Wear your learning like your watch, ina private pocket. Do not pull it
outmerely to show that you have one. Ifasked what o’clock it is, tell
it, but donot proclaim it hourly and unasked,like the watchman....

 —Phillip D. Stanhope

 It is vain to gather virtues withouthumility; for the spirit of God
delightsto dwell in the hearts of the humble....

 —Erasmus

 Man is humble when the flaming fireof desires has become extinct....

 — Al-Tirmidi

 When humility enters a man’s soul, heis at last able to perceive that
he doesnot live alone in the world but withmillions of brothers, and
that hidden inthe heart of each is the same animatingspirit....	— U.
S. Anderson

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Humility	*	254	*	Humility

  ■?***■?	

 True humility is a great force, and although it works with gentleness,
yet it never fails to transform....

 —Paramananda

 If you cannot be the sun, then be the humble planet....	— Tibetan
proverb

 Humbleness is always grace, always dignity....	— James Russell Lowell

 He that is down needs fear no fall; he that is low, no pride; he that
is humble ever shall have God to be his guide....

 —John Bunyan

 Be lowly and humble, only thus can you rise. The lark builds its nest
on the ground, but it soars high in the sky....

 —Ramakrishna

 There is nothing more ostentatious than deliberate humility....

 —Alan Watts

 Be humble, and you will remain entire. Be bent, and you will remain
straight. Be vacant, and you will remain full....

 —Catholic prayer

 If you are humble, nothing will touch you, neither praise nor disgrace,
because you know what you are....

 —Mother Teresa

 Discount the one who immediately starts out to tell you all about his
accomplishments or achievements. If they are good and lasting, others
will tell you about them....The big man does not have to brag. The
little man thinks he must....	— Fred Van Amburgh

 Of myself I can do nothing; the Father that dwells in me, He does the
work....

 —Jesus

 Take the lowest place and you shall reach the highest....	— Milarepa

 The end of all strife and contention is regret; but the end of humility
is strength and possession....

 —Shekel Hakodesh

 The mark of the immature man is that he wants to die nobly for a cause,
while the mark of the mature man is that he wants to live humbly for
one....

 — J. D. Salinger

 The gate of heaven....is so narrow that it admits only little ones....
— St.	Bernard

 Take your seat a little below your rank, for it is better to be asked
to come up than to be told to go down....

 —Tanna Akiba

 A  mountain shames a molehill until they are both humbled by the
stars....

 —Anonymous

 Humility is a virtue that subdues the hearts of others. A man of
humility is a powerful magnet or lodestone....

 —Sivananda

 Do you wish to rise? Begin by descending. You plan a tower that shall
pierce the clouds? Lay first the foundation....

 —Augustine

 It often happens that those of whom we speak least on earth are best
known in heaven....	-— Nicolas Caussin

 Humility comes....only with maturity....

 —Louis Finklestein

 True humility is contentment....

 —Henri F. Amiel

 Nothing is in vain or without profit to the humble soul: like the bee,
it takes its honey from the bitter herbs; it stands always in a state of
divine growth, and everything that falls upon it is a dew of Heaven to
it....

 —William Law

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Humility

 If you remember your own nothing-ness, you remember also God’s
tran-scendence....	— Philo

 A  humble person is generally well-likedand respected because he or she
doesnot challenge others. When the ego isnot attacked, not put on guard,
it has ahard time gathering strength to attackanother....	— Shantidasa

 Humility is the most excellent cure foranger....	— Jeremy Taylor

 How ennobling it is to apologize toanother when you have been in
thewrong, and how doubly thrilling it is—if you can bring yourself to
do it—toapologize when you know he is asmuch in the wrong as you....

 —James T. Mangan

 Humility is the surest sign of strength....

 —Thomas Merton

 Humility is the first lesson we learnfrom reflection....

 —Johann W. Zimmerman

 Until the ego finally dies, humilityalone is good for the spiritual
aspir-ant....	— Ramana Maharshi

 One is only as obedient as one ishumble, and one can never be humbleif
one is not obedient....

 —Catherine of Siena

 Humility in itself is nothing but a truefeeling of a man’s self as he
is....Godwalks with the humble; he revealshimself to the lowly; he
givesunderstanding to the little ones; hediscloses his meaning to pure
minds,but hides his grace from the curiousand proud....	— Thomas a
Kempis

 Humility is to make a right estimate of

 one’s self....	— Charles Spurgeon

  255 *	Humility 

 TS- 	

 As life unfolds itself to man the firstlesson he learns is humility....

 —Hazrat Inayat Khan

 I find hidden, somewhere away in mynature, something that tells me
thatnothing in the whole world ismeaningless, and suffering least of
all.That something hidden away in mynature, like a treasure in a field,
isHumility....	— Oscar Wilde

 It is only by forgetting yourself that youdraw near God....	— Henry
D. Thoreau

 The Chinese character for humility isalso the Chinese character for
empti-ness....	— Anonymous

 It is not a great thing to be humblewhen you are brought low; but to
behumble when you are praised is a greatand rare attainment.... — St.
Bernard

 As a dry stick is better disposed forburning than a wet stick, so a
humbleman is better disposed for faith than aknow-it-all....	 —Fulton
J. Sheen

 Life is a long lesson in humility....

 —James M. Barrie

 The highest goodness is like water.Water is beneficent to all things
butdoes not contend, preferring to gatherat the lowest level where
othersdespise....	— Lao-tzu

 The casting down of our spirits in truehumility is but like throwing a
ball tothe ground, which makes it reboundthe higher toward heaven....

 —John Mason

 The humble soul is a temple of God, aseatofwisdom....	 —Johann	Arndt

 Humility is the seed of contentment....

 —Israel M. Kagan

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Humility	*	256 	♦?	 Humility

  	

 Humility is to the virtues what the chain is to the rosary: remove the
chain, and all the beads escape; take away humility, and all the virtues
disappear....	— The Cure d’Ars

 Man often exults the defeat of another forgetting that, some other
time, his own defeat will be the cause of jubilation for others. So,
humility in all the conditions of life is the way to enjoy peace....	—
Papa Ramdas

 You should practice humility first toward man and only then toward God.
He who despises men has no respect for God....	— Paracelsus

 Discourses on humility are a source of pride to the vain....	— Blaise
Pascal

 Heaven’s gates are not so highly arched as princes’ palaces; they
that enter there must go upon their knees....

 —John Webster

 My lowliness is my loftiness....

 —Hillel

 In Heaven an angel is nobody in particular....	— George B. Shaw

 Humility is the most difficult of virtues to achieve; nothing dies
harder than the desire to think well of oneself....

 — T. S. Eliot

 Learn to know all, but keep yourself unknown....	— Sufi saying

 It was pride that changed angels to devils; it is humility that makes
men angels....	— Augustine

 He who knows himself to be insignificant, even among the uncultured and
the ignorant, who lives in darkness, shall have the Divine Light dwell
within him....

 —Israel Baal Shem Ton

 A modest person is usually admired—if people ever hear of him....

 —Edgar W. Howe

 Sense shines with a double luster when it is set in humility. An able
and yet humble man is a jewel worth a kingdom....	— William Penn

 Humility is the root, mother, nurse, foundation, and bond of all
virtue....

 —John Chrysostom

 The voice of humility is God’s music and the silence of humility is
God’s rhetoric....	— Francis Quarles

 Even if you be otherwise perfect, you fail without humility....

 —The Talmud

 Nothing sets a person so much out of the devil’s reach as
humility....

 —Jonathan Edwards

 If thou wouldst become a pilgrim on the path of love the first
condition is that thou become as humble as dust and ashes....	— Ansari

 My lowliness raises up God and the lower I humble myself the higher do
I exalt God and the higher I exalt God the more gently and sweetly He
pours into me His divine gift, His divine influx....	— Meister Eckhart

 Humility does not cast down the individual, it raises him up....

 —Antoine de Saint-Exupery

 Whosoever shall humble himself....the same is greatest in the kingdom
of heaven....	— Jesus

 He that places himself neither higher nor lower than he ought to do,
exercises the truest humility....

 —Charles C. Colton

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Humility

 257

 -   e xp? -

 Hypocrisy

 A humble man can do great things with uncommon perfection because he is
no longer concerned about....his own interests and his own reputation,
and therefore he no longer needs to waste his efforts in defending
them....

 —Thomas Merton

 One who is well aware that he is humble is no longer humble....

 —Jacob Klatzkin

 True humility makes no pretense of being humble, and scarcely ever
utters words of humility....

 —Francis de Sales

 One of the commonest manifestations of vanity is a pretended
humility....

 —Julian P. Johnson

 Humility has that low sweet root, from which all heavenly virtues
shoot....

 —Thomas More

 These are a few of the ways we can practice humility: Speak as little
as possible of oneself. Mind one’s own business. Avoid curiosity. Do
not want to manage other people’s affairs. Accept contradiction and
correction cheerfully. Pass over the mistakes of others. Accept blame
when innocent. Yield to the will of others. Accept insults and injuries.
Accept being slighted, forgotten and disliked. Be kind and gentle even
under provocation. Do not seek to be specially loved and admired. Never
stand on one’s dignity. Yield in discussion even though one is right.
Choose always the hardest....	— Mother Teresa

 Humility is the altar on which God wishes us to offer sacrifices to
Him....

 —Francois La Rochefoucauld

 The higher we are placed, the more humbly should we walk....	— Cicero

 There is no true holiness without humility....	— Thomas Fuller

 There is but one road to lead to God— humility; all other ways would
only lead astray, even were they fenced in with all virtues....	—
Nicolas Boileau

 The science of humility rests upon the knowledge of God and of
oneself....

 —William Ullathome

 There are many people who strive to be pious, but few who yearn to be
humble....	— Anonymous

 He who humbles himself shall be saved; He who bends shall be made
straight; He who empties himself shall be filled....	— Lao-tzu

 Be humble, that you may not be humbled....	— The Talmud

 The tree laden with fruit always bends low....	— Ramahrishna

  Hypocrisy 

 H

 ypocrisy begins when one is cov-etous....	— Sivananda

 If we divine a discrepancy between a man’s words and his character,
the whole impression of him becomes broken and painful....

 —Charles H. Cooley

 The world consists almost exclusively of people who are one sort and
who behave like another sort....

 —Zona Gray

 A  bad man is worse when he pretends to be a saint....	— Francis
Bacon

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065    Hypocrisy 

 Hypocrisy in anything whatever may deceive the cleverest and most
penetrating man, but the least'wideawake of children recognizes it, and
is revolted by it, however ingeniously it may be disguised....	— Leo
Tolstoy

 Let the world know you as you are, not as you think you should be,
because sooner or later, if you think you are posing, you will forget
the pose, and then where are you?...	— Fannie Brice

 Neither man nor angel can discern hypocrisy, the only evil that walks
invisible, except to God alone....

 —John Milton

 Hypocrisy is folly. It is much easier, safer, and pleasanter to be the
thing which a man aims to appear, than to keep up the appearance of what
he is not....	— Cecil

 Artful, cunning, crafty people are paralyzed when you refuse to
recognize their hypocrisy....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 Hypocrisy is pretending to be perfect, and in the process, imposing a
sense of judgement and guilt on those around you. Hypocrisy is giving
everybody the verbal assurance that you are living up to your own
standards, when you are really not....	— Robert H. Schuller

 No man can, for any considerable time, wear one face to himself, and
another to the multitude, without finally getting bewildered as to which
is the true one....	— Nathaniel Hawthorne

 The wolf in sheep’s clothing is a fitting emblem of the hypocrite.
Every virtuous man would rather meet an open foe than a pretended friend
who was a traitor at heart....	— H. F. Kletzing

  Hypocrisy 

 One may smile and smile and be a villain still....	— William
Shakespeare

 When you are no longer in danger of being thought of as a hypocrite by
your friends, beware of your hypocrisy with God....	— Oswald Chambers

 I will have nothing to do with a man who can blow hot and cold with the
same breath....	— Aesop

 Where there is much pretense, much has been borrowed—nature never
pretends....	— John K. Lavater

 What hypocrites we seem to be whenever we talk of ourselves. Our words
sound so humble while our hearts are so proud....

 —Augustus & Julius Hare

 How can you say to another, “Let me take a speck out of your eye!”
Hypocrite! First remove the speck from your own eye, and then you will
be able to remove that of your brother....

 —Jesus

 Hypocrisy can afford to be magnificent in its promises; for never
intending to go beyond promises, it costs nothing....

 —Edmund Burke

 Hypocrisy is prejudice with a halo....

 —Ambrose Bierce

 Actors are the only honest hypocrites. Their life is a voluntary dream;
and the height of their ambition is to be beside themselves....	
—William Hazlitt

 To have one eye glued on the enchanting pleasures of the flesh, and
with the other to expect to see a spark of Eternal Bliss, is not only
impossible but the height of hypocrisy....	— Meher Baba

 ♦?  258  ♦?

 •xpr

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Hypocrisy 	♦?	 k

 Hypocrisy is saying one thing and doing another; it is very easy to
spot in others and very difficult to find in ourselves....	— Anonymous

 To thine own self be true, and it shall follow as night the day that
thou cannot then be false to any man....

 —William Shakespeare

 A  hypocrite is in himself both the archer and the mark, in all actions
shooting out his own praise or profit....

 —Thomas Fuller

 No man is a hypocrite in his pleasures....	— Samuel Johnson

 &

  Ignorance 

 M

 ost ignorance is the direct resultof apathy; people don’t know

 because they don’t care to know....

 —Anonymous

 When a stupid man is doing somethinghe is ashamed of, he always
declaresthat it is his duty....	 —George B. Shaw

 There is after all no obligation toanswer every passing fool according
tohis folly....	— Elias Canetti

 The characteristic of the ignorant manis that he strives to be other
than whathe is....To the enlightened one, there isnone who are
ignorant....

 —Yoga Vasistha

 The senses and the mind of man werecreated out of ignorance.
Thereforethey move in ignorance and delight inignorance. They always
find joy and

 peace in falsities. For their nature isignorance....	— Sivananda

  19 *	Ignorance 

 	

 Every man takes the limits of his own

 field of vision for the limits of the

 world....	-— Arthur Schopenhauer

 People are never so near playing the fool as when they think themselves
wise....	— Mary W. Montagu

 Ignorance is not innocence but sin....

 —Robert Browning

 People are never so near playing the fool as when they think themselves
wise....	— Mary W. Montagu

 Ego is only an illusion caused by your ignorance....	— Papa Ramdas

 All the world over everybody recognizes that he must pay for what he
gets. It is only the fool who tries to get something for nothing....

 —Julian P. Johnson

 The ignorant man always adores what he cannot understand....

 —Cesare Lombroso

 The first reason for man’s slavery is his ignorance, and above all,
his ignorance of himself....	— George I. Gurdjieff

 Nothing in all the world is more dangerous than sincere ignorance and
conscientious stupidity....

 —Martin Luther King, Jr.

 The root of ignorance is the idea that a person is separate from
God....Ignorance conceals the existent knowledge just as weeds cover the
surface of a pond. Clean the weeds and you have the water....	— Shirdi
Sai Baba

 Only the fool whose mind is deluded by egotism considers himself to be
the doer....	— Bhagavad-Gita

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Ignorance	*	260 	♦?	 Ignorance

 Ignorance is always indifferent to the truth. Be indifferent and
habitually skeptical and you will be rated as ignorant....	— Fred Van
Amburgh

 There is a principle which is a bar against all information, which is
proof against all arguments and which cannot fail to keep a man in
everlasting ignorance. That principle is contempt prior to
investigation....

 —Herbert Spencer

 Man is indeed God playing the fool....

 —Papa Ramdas

 I have always observed that to succeed in the world one should seem
like a fool, but be wise....

 —Charles Montesquieu

 I have never met a man so ignorant that I couldn’t learn something
from him....	— Galileo Galilei

 A  great deal of intelligence can be invested in ignorance when the
need for illusion is deep....	— Saul Bellow

 Better to live alone; with a fool there is no companionship....

 —Buddhist saying

 The world is full of fools; and he who would not wish to see one, must
not only shut himself up alone but must break his looking glass....

 —Nicolas Boileau

 Desire is an offspring of ignorance....

 —Sivananda

 Anyone can make a mistake. A fool insists on repeating it....

 —Robertine Maynard

 An ignorant man is, by the very fact of his ignorance, a very dangerous
person....	— Hendrik W. Van Loon

 Fools with bookish knowledge are children with edged weapons; they hurt
themselves, and put others in pain. The half-learned is more dangerous
than the simpleton....

 —Johann G. Zimmerman

 The recipe for perpetual ignorance is: be satisfied with your opinion
and content with your knowledge....

 —Elbert Hubbard

 There is nothing more frightening than ignorance in action....

 —Johann W. Goethe

 Experience is the common schoolhouse of fools and ill men. Men of wit
and honesty are otherwise instructed....

 —Erasmus

 Who is ignorant? He who does not educate his children....

 —The Talmud

 Impossible is a word only to be found in the dictionary of fools....

 —Napoleon Bonaparte

 The chief characteristic of folly is that it mistakes itself for
wisdom....

 —Luis de Leon

 He is a fool who misjudges good precepts for falsehood....

 —Tripura Rahasya

 A  fool can no more see his own folly than he can see his ears....

 —William M. Thackeray

 You can tell a fool from a wise man when you rebuke him; the fool will
rebuke you back, the wise man will quietly love you....	— Anonymous

 Young men think old men fools, and old men know young men to be so....

 —Richard Metcalf

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Ignorance	*	261	*	Ignorance

 	-sp?	

 A fool may be known by six things: anger, without cause; speech,
without profit; change, without progress; inquiry, without object;
putting trust in a stranger, and mistaking foes for friends....	—
Arabian proverb

 A  wise man in the company of those who are ignorant has been compared
to a beautiful girl in the company of blind men....	 —Saadi

 The only evil is ignorance....

 —Diogenes

 A  fool sees not the same tree that a wise man sees....	 —William
Blake

 Ignorant and foolish men, with a labor as vain as it is obstinate,
search out the natures of things while they remain in ignorance of the
One who is the Author and Maker of themselves and of all things
alike.... — Hugh of Saint-Victor

 Our lives are universally shortened by our ignorance....	— Herbert
Spencer

 There are various routes of escape from responsibility: escape into
death, escape into disease, and escape into stupidity. The last is the
safest and easiest....	— Arthur Schnitzler

 It is better to be a beggar than ignorant....

 —Aristippus

 Ignorance is the night of the mind, a night without moon or star....

 —Confucius

 To be overcome by pleasure is ignorance in the highest degree....	—
Plato

 A  parable from the mouth of a fool is worthless, for he utters it out
of season....	— Apocrypha: Ben Sira

 There are two kinds of fools: one says, ‘This is old, therefore it is
good’; the other says, ‘This is new, therefore it is better’....
— William R. Inge

 Fools rush in where angels fear to tread....	— Alexander Pope

 That which is lacking in the present world is a profound knowledge of
the nature of things.... — Frithjof Schuon

 Ignorance makes you identify yourself with the body and your entire
life is centered in and utilized for the satisfaction of your
senses—the offspring of your lower nature. Therefore, rise up and
declare that you are immortal spirit full of power, bliss and peace....	
—Papa	Ramdas

 There is no slavery but ignorance....

 —Robert Ingersoll

 To be ignorant of one’s ignorance is the malady of the ignorant....

 —Amos B. Alcott

 An ignorant man believes the whole universe exists only for him....If,
therefore, anything happens to him contrary to his expectations, he at
once concludes that the whole universe is evil....	— Maimonides

 Foolish men mistake transitory semblances for eternal fact, and go
astray more and more....

 —Thomas Carlyle

 We should not call our brother a fool; for we ourselves do not know
what we are. God alone can judge and know....

 —Paracelsus

 If a man does not struggle hard to realize God, he remains steeped in
ignorance....	— Brahmananda

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Ignorance

 262

 -  -

 Ignorance

 To know and yet not to do is in fact not to know....	— Wang Yang Ming

 Passions, prejudices, fears, neuroses spring from ignorance, and take
the form of myths and illusions....

 —Isaiah Berlin

 The greater the ignorance, the greater the dogmatism.... — William
Osier

 If fifty million people say a foolish thing, it is still a foolish
thing....

 —Anatole France

 A  piece of glass and a diamond are alike to the blind, just as
falsehood and truth are both the same to the fool....

 —Anonymous

 It is only evil and ignorance that have many shapes. Truth and wisdom
are one and the same....	— Abbot Lee Lisan

 Let a fool hold his tongue and he will pass for a sage....	—
Publilius Syrus

 Wise men profit more from fools than fools from wise men; for the wise
men shun the mistakes of fools, but fools do not imitate the successes
of the wise....

 —Marcus Cato

 Ignorance is the primary source of all misery and vice....	— Victor
Cousin

 To act without clear understanding, to form habits without
investigation, to follow a path all one’s life without knowing where
it really leads—such is the behavior of the multitude....

 —Menicus

 The greatest calamity that befalls the heedless is that they are
ignorant of their own faults....	— Hujwiri

 A  fool is not aware of his folly....

 —The Talmud

 A  fool must now and then be right by chance....	— William Cowper

 The eternal, blissful and natural state has been smothered by this life
of ignorance....	— Ramana Maharshi

 Those who are blind in this world shall be blind in the next....	—
Koran

 The ignorant man marvels at the exceptional; the wise man marvels at
the common.... — George D. Boardman

 A  fool always finds some greater fool to admire him....	— Nicolas
Boileau

 It is better to conceal ignorance than to put it forth into the
midst....

 —Heraclitus

 Stubborn and ardent clinging to one’s opinion is the best proof of
stupidity....

 —Michel Montaigne

 The tragedy of ignorance is its complacency....	— Robert Quillen

 People oppose things because they are ignorant of them....	—
El-Ghazali

 Most ignorance is vincible ignorance. We don’t know because we
don’t want to know....	— Aldous Huxley

 Ignorant men raise questions that wise men answered thousands of years
ago....	— Johann W, Goethe

 A  man who has never seen the sun cannot be blamed for thinking that no
glory can exceed that of the moon....

 —Calderon

 The ultimate result of shielding man from the effects of folly is to
fill the world with fools....	— Herbert Spencer

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Ignorance 	♦?	 2

 It is impossible to defeat an ignorant man in an argument....

 —William G. McAdoo

 Against stupidity the gods themselves struggle in vain....

 —Friedrich von Schiller

 Being ignorant of his true identity, man has evolved to be his own
worst enemy. Observing his outside surroundings, man often perceives it
as an illusionary foe. A fierce struggle inevitably ensues and the end
may be predicted with absolute certainty: man loses, wounding himself in
the process....	— Shantidasa

 The fool says in his heart: “There is no God.”...	— Old Testament

 Better to be unborn than untaught, for ignorance is the root of
misfortune....

 —Plato

 Ignorance deprives men of freedom because they do not know what
alternatives there are. It is impossible to choose to do what one has
never “heard of.”...	— Ralph B. Perry

 Man, ignorant of self, creates his own unhappiness....	 —Paul	Brunton

 Ignorance is the beginning of knowledge; knowledge is the beginning of
wisdom; wisdom is the awareness of ignorance....	— William Rotsler

 A  fool may have his coat embroidered with gold, but it is a fool’s
coat still....

 —Antoine Rivarol

 Ignorance or delusion....sets us on the belief that this body of ours
is real and makes us forget the all-pervading Divine being whi is the
one and only reality. Living in this ignorance, our sole outlook on life
becomes one continued service of this unral and perishable body...	—
Papa Ramdas

 Illusions

  Elusions 

 E

 verything is vain, hopeless andsenseless....	— Latin saying

 Illusions command themselves to us because they save us pain and allow
us to enjoy pleasure instead. We must therefore accept it without
complaint when they sometimes collide with a bit of reality against
which they are dashed to pieces....	— Sigmund Freud

 Now the wonderful world is born. In an instant it dies, in a breath it
is renewed. From the slowness of our eye and the quickness of God's hand
we believe in the world....	— William Buck

 Each person is a specialist in fantasizing their own illusory world....

 —A Spiritual Warrior

 We suffer primarily not from our vices or our weaknesses, but from our
illusions. We are haunted, not by reality, but by those images we have
put in place of reality....

 —Daniel J. Boorstin

 When one sees that everything exists as an illusion, one can live in a
higher sphere than ordinary man....

 —Gautama Buddha

 Questioning illusions is the first step to undoing them....

 —A Course In Miracles

 Our greatest illusion is disillusion. We imagine that we are
disillusioned with life, when the truth is that we have not even begun
to live....

 —Paul Brunton

 The real illusion is that we are separate....	— Ron Smothermon

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Elusions

 ♦?  264  ♦?

 Elusions

 •sp-

 This waking life is just a long dream which keeps our attention away
from what we really are. If you take the attitude that all the
happenings in the world are dream events, your mind becomes tranquil. It
is only when you take the dream world to be real that you get
agitated....

 —Annamalai Swami

 The greatest illusion is the belief that life has nothing to teach
you....

 —Shantidasa

 The universe is illusion merely, not one speck of it real, and we are
not only victims....but also captives, bound by the mineral-made ropes
of senses....

 —Annie Dillard

 Look upon friends, possessions, wealth, mansions, wives, gifts, and
other good fortune, as a dream or a magic show, lasting only a few
days....

 —Ashtavakra Gita

 The philosopher laughs, for he alone escapes being duped, while he sees
other men the victims of persistent illusion. He is like some
mischievous spectator of a ball who has cleverly taken all the strings
from the violins, and yet sees musicians and dancers moving and
pirouetting before him as though the music were still playing....

 —Henri F. Amiel

 Beware that you do not lose the substance by grasping at the shadow....

 —Aesop

 Illusion exists only for him whose sight is bound....	— Sankara

 This is a schoolroom of illusion. Do not give permanent reality to
temporary things. Once you have learned what you came to learn the
illusion can be left....	— Emmanuel

 The treasures of the earth are but illusive things that pass away....

 —The Aquarian Gospel

 With truth, one cannot live. To be able to live, one needs
illusions....

 —Otto Rank

 Worldly enjoyments are fleeting like the flashes of lightning. Human
life is ephemeral like the bubble. The vigor of youth is short-lived.
All these are illusory in this world.... — Sivananda

 All that is transitory is only an image....

 —Johann W. Goethe

 The world is an illusion, but it is an illusion which we must take
seriously, because it is real as far as it goes....

 —Aldous Huxley

 Truth is simple, but Illusion makes it infinitely intricate. The person
is rare who possesses an insatiable longing for Truth; the rest allow
Illusion to bind them ever more and more....

 —Meher Baba

 “Passing away” is written on the world and all the world
contains....

 —Felicia D. Hemans

 The real illusion is to believe that we are separate from God....

 —Omraam M. Aivanhov

 All phenomena in the world are nothing but the illusory manifestation
of the mind and have no reality on their own....	— Ashvaghosha

 Things are not always what they seem....	— Phaedus

 We do not exaggerate when we say that life on earth is a mere
bubble....

 —Mohandas Gandhi

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Illusions

 Do not hold as gold all that shines as gold....	— Allain de Lille

 I began to understand that the promises of the world are for the most
part vain phantoms, and that to have faith in oneself and become
something of worth and value is the best and safest course....	—
Michelangelo

 Human life is an endless illusion....

 —Blaise Pascal

 Pleasure can be supported by illusion, while happiness rests upon
truth....

 —Sebastien Chamfort

 People who believe in the reality of the world are really no better
than people who build dams to catch the water that they see in a
mirage....

 —Annamalai Swami

 The stripping away of illusion and the struggle to find personal
reality can be likened to the peeling of an apple. As one peels away the
layers of unreality....eventually only the core remains....	— Meredith
L. Young

 The attainment of an ideal is often the beginning of a disillusion....

 —Stanley Baldwin

 An illusion is nothing but the shadow of God....	— Anonymous

 A human being is part of the whole, called by us the universe; a part
limited by time and space. He experiences himself, his thoughts and
feelings as something separated from the rest, a kind of optical
illusion of consciousness. This delusion is a kind of prison for us,
restricting us to our personal desires and to affection for a few
persons nearest us. Our task is to free ourselves from this prison....

 —Albert Einstein

 <*?

 265  ♦?	 Elusions

 	

 Man’s chief delusion is his convictionthat there are causes other
than hisown state of consciousness....

 —Darwin Gross

 The world is an illusion. Why is itunreal? Because none of the
knowledgeis going to remain permanent, as realknowledge. I had a number
ofidentities; I was a child, I was a boy, Iwas a teenager, I was a
middle-agedman, I was an old man. Like otheridentities I thought would
remainconstant, they never remained so.Finally, I became very old....So
whichidentity remained honest with me?...

 —Nisargadatta

 There is no end to illusion. Life is atrain of moods like a string of
beads,and as we pass through them theyprove to be many colored lenses
whichpaint the world their own hue....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 The phenomena of life can be

 compared to a dream, a ghost, an airbubble, a shadow, glittering dew,
theflash of lightning—and must becontemplated as such....

 —Gautama Buddha

 All illusion is sorry. Only the real Self istrue happiness....

 — G. V. Subbaramayya

 Let us watch the divine play on the

 world stage. People appear on it and

 disappear from it. The world is apassing show....	 —Papa	Ramdas

 Delusion completely overcomes man’ssense of right and wrong....

 —Srimad Bhagavatam

 Attachment is the great fabricator of

 illusions; reality can be attained only bysomeone who is detached....

 —Simone Weil

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Illusions	*	2

 It is a certainty that one cannot live in reality until one has died to
illusion....

 —Whitall N. Perry

 Wealth and power pass like a dream, beauty fades like a flower, long
life is gone like a wave.... — William Buck

 Nothing is more hidden from us than the illusion which lives with us
day by day, and our greatest illusion is to believe that we are what we
think ourselves to be....	— Henri F. Amiel

 Thus shall you think of all this fleeting world: a star at dawn, a
bubble in a stream, a flash of lightning on a summer cloud, a flickering
lamp, a phantom, a dream....	— Hindu sutra

 There is no more dangerous illusion than the fancies by which people
try to avoid illusion....	— Francois Fenelon

  Imagination 

 O

 ur griefs, as well as our joys, owetheir strongest colors to our

 imaginations. There is nothing so griev-ous to be borne that pondering
upon itwill not make it heavier; and there is nopleasure so vivid that
the animation offancy cannot liven it....	— Jane Porter

 If you wish to advance into the infinite, explore the finite in all
directions....

 —Johann W. Goethe

 To visualize is a form of prayer. It is the sending out of a dynamic
positive desire which does not have to be put in words....	— Ambrose
Worrall

 The world is but a canvas to our imaginations....	— Henry D. Thoreau

 6 *	Imagination

 Imagination is our ability to see inwardly and picture there that which
has not yet appeared outwardly. Imagination is God’s gift to us....

 —Donald Curtis

 The first power that meets us at the threshold of the Soul’s domain
is the power of imagination....

 —Franz Hartmann

 Imagination has always had powers of resurrection that no science can
match....	— Ingrid Bengis

 It is through the imagination that the formless takes form....

 —Darwin Gross

 What is an idea? It is an image that paints itself in my brain....

 —Voltaire

 Imagination grows by exercise, and contrary to common belief, it is
more powerful in the mature than in the young....	— Somerset Maugham

 A prison is never narrow when the imagination can range in it as it
will....

 —Marguerite of Navarre

 We are what we pretend to be, so we must be careful about what we
pretend to be....	— Kurt Vonnegut

 Operate out of your imagination, not your memory....	— Les Brown

 Imagination alone is the life of language. Take away this imaginary
relationship between name and object, and you will find that language is
dead and useless....

 —Janardan Paramahansa

 The mind, without imagination, would be as useless as an observatory
without a telescope....	— Fred Van Amburgh

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Imagination	*	267 	♦?	
Imagination

 	

 People suffer more in imagination than they do in reality.... —
Anonymous

 The great instrument of moral good is the imagination.... — Percy B.
Shelley

 Imagination is the ruler of our dreams....	— William B. Clulow

 True imagination is not fanciful daydreaming; it is fire from
heaven....

 —Ernest Holmes

 The faculty of imagination is the great spring of human activity, and
the principal source of human improve- ment....Destroy this faculty, and
the condition of man will become as stationary as that of the brutes....

 —Dugald Stewart

 We should not ignore the fact that it is left to us either to use or
misuse our mind and imagination. One who seeks God and depends upon God,
who trains his imagination to correspond with Divine
imagination....lives in a condition of peace and harmony....

 —Henry T. Hamblin

 Imagination has the capability to choose pain and disorder in the same
measure as it does goodness and order....	— Anonymous

 Man surrounds himself with true image of himself. Every spirit builds
itself a house and beyond its house a world, and beyond its world a
heaven....	— Ralph W. Emerson

 Imagination is more important than knowledge....	— Albert Einstein

 The highest and best work of imagination is the marvelous
transformation that it works in character. Imagine that you are one with
the Principle of good, and you will become truly good....	— Charles
Fillmore

 Man consists of body, mind and imagination. His body is faulty, his
mind untrustworthy, but his imagination has made him remarkable....

 —John Masefield

 Your imaginings can have as much power over you as your reality, or
even more....	— Charles T. Tart

 The world of reality has its limits; the world of imagination is
boundless....

 —Jean J. Rousseau

 Solitude is as needful to the imagination as society is wholesome for
the character....  —James Russell Lowell

 Once you know with abundant certainty that nothing can trouble you but
your own imagination, you come to disregard your desires and fears,
concepts and ideas, and live by truth alone....	— Nisargadatta

 Imagination is as good as many voyages—and how much cheaper....

 —George W. Curtis

 Believe that you shall receive and you shall receive....	— Jesus

 Imagination is the real and eternal world of which this vegetable
universe is but a faint shadow....The eternal body of man is the
imagination: that is God himself, the Divine Body....

 —William Blake

 Imagination is the first step in creation whether in words or trifles.
The mental pattern must always precede the material form....

 —William W. Atkinson

 When the will and imagination are in conflict, the imagination
invariably wins the day....	— Emile Coue

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Imitation

 &

 Imitation

 I

 f the blind lead the blind both shallfall into the ditch....	— Jesus

 Great bodies of people are never responsible for what they do....

 —Virginia Woolf

 If you live long enough with the lame, you will find yourself walking
with a limp....	— Anonymous

 The faint-hearted and indifferent are those who follow the current of
public opinion, and are incapable of any movement by themselves....

 —Eliphas Levi

 There is a time in every man’s education when he arrives at the
conviction that envy is ignorance; that imitation is suicide; that he
must take himself for better or worse as his portion....	— Ralph W.
Emerson

 Remember this: a man flattened by an opponent can get up again. A man
flattened by conformity stays down for good....	— Thomas J. Watson

 Conformity is the jailer of freedom and the enemy of growth....

 —John F. Kennedy

 Man’s natural character is to imitate; that of a sensitive man is to
resemble as closely as possible the person whom he loves....	— Marquis
de Sade

 Imitation affords only a temporary advantage. Things must be real to
endure....He who imitates another most likely lacks individuality....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 268 *	Imitation

 - isp- 	

 Men nearly always follow the tracksmade by others in their affairs by
imita-tion....	— Niccolo Machiavelli

 Let’s not imitate others. Let’s findourselves and be ourselves....

 —Dale Carnegie

 We forfeit our uniqueness bycompromising and making con-cessions, today
in this matter,tomorrow in another, according to thedictates of the
world—by nevercontradicting the world, and by alwaysfollowing public
opinion....

 —Vincent Van Gogh

 Following along with the crowd isalways a sign of immaturity. When
youare mature, you live according to yourhighest light, you lead the
way, you area pioneer....	— Peace Pilgrim

 The most complete revenge is not toimitate the aggressor....

 —Marcus Aurelius

 We forfeit three-quarters of ourselves inorder to be like other
people....

 —Arthur Schopenhauer

 He who follows another sees nothing,learns nothing, nay, seeks
nothing....

 —William Osier

 The wise man never imitates anyaction....	— Bhagavad-Gita

 To admire on principle is the only wayto imitate without loss of
originality....

 —Samuel T. Coleridge

 Don’t drop to the level of others. Letthem go on eating dung while
you justspeak the holy name in your heart....

 —Kabir

 No man ever yet became great byimitation....	— Samuel Johnson

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890    Imitation   ♦?   2 

 Where there is much pretension, much has been borrowed: nature never
pretends....It is a poor wit who lives by borrowing the words,
decisions, mien, inventions, and actions of others....

 —John K. Lavater

 Most people are other people. Their thoughts are someone else’s
opinions, their lives a mimiciy.... — Oscar Wilde

 He who imitates evil always goes beyond the example that is set; he who
imitates what is good always falls short....	— Francesco Guicciardini

 We are more than half what we are by imitation. The great point is to
choose good models and to study them with care....	— G. K. Chesterton

 We imitate only what we believe and admire....	— Robert A. Willmott

 Insist on yourself; never imitate....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 Everything in this world can be imitated; except truth, for truth that
is imitated is no longer truth....

 —Mendel of Kotzk

 To do exactly the opposite is also a form of imitation.... — Georg C.
Lichtenberg

 We fail most frequently when we seek a goal by someone else’s path.
We stumble most trying to walk the other fellow’s way....	— Norman
C. Schidle

 One should respect public opinion insofar as is necessary to avoid
starvation and to keep out of prison, but anything that goes beyond this
is voluntary submission to an unnecessary tyranny....	— Bertrand
Russell

 There is nothing to be gained by copying others....	— Polish proverb

  9   ♦? 	 Immortality	/Eternity 

 Imitation causes us to leave natural ways to enter into artificial
ones; it therefore makes us slaves....

 —Alexander Vinet

 Mediocrity finds reassurance in conformity....	— Ationymous

 There is a difference between imitating a good man and counterfeiting
him....

 —Benjamin Franklin

  Immortality/ Eternity 

 T

 he average man, who does notknow what to do with this life,

 wants another, one which shall last for-ever....	— Anatole France

 You may tell me that my hand and footare only imaginary symbols of my
exis-tence. I could believe you, but younever, never can convince me
that the Iis not an eternal reality, and that thespiritual is not the
true and real part ofme....	— Alfred L. Tennyson

 Let us live as if we were immortal....

 —Aristotle

 Eternity is called whole, not because ithas parts, but because it is
lacking innothing....	— Thomas Aquinas

 Eternity has neither beginning norend....	— Eliphas Levi

 Eternity is not something that beginsafter you are dead. It is going on
all thetime. We are in it now....

 —Charlotte P. Gilman

 The longing to be so helps make the soul immortal.... — James Russell
Lowell

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Immortality /Eternity 	♦?	 270 
♦?	 Immortality/Eternity

 We feel and know that we are eternal....

 —Baruch Spinoza

 Man is just a bridge between two eternities, the eternity of nature and
the eternity of God....

 —Friedrich W. Nietzsche

 I find it natural to believe that death is not a disastrous sundown but
rather a spiritual sunrise, ushering in the unconjectured splendors of
immortality...	— Archibald Rutledge

 Man, tree, and flower are supposed to die; but the fact remains that
God’s universe is spiritual and immortal....

 —Mary Baker Eddy

 There is no hurry. You are eternal. If you forget something in this
life, there will be plenty of time again....

 —Emmanuel

 Expect no greater happiness in Eternity, than to rejoice in God....

 —Benjamin Whichcote

 The man who refuses firmly to entertain the hope of immortality....is
no more brave and realistic than a man who refuses to open the door of
his dark room and come out into the sunshine....	— D. G. M. Jackson

 Neither experience nor science has given man the idea of
immortality....The idea of immortality rises from the very depths of his
soul—he feels, he sees, he knows that he is immortal....

 ■?—Francois Guizot

 The power behind every activity of nature and of man is the power of
God. To realize this truth is to be immortal....

 —The Upanishads

 The soul of man is immortal....

 -—Benjamin Franklin

 Our own death is indeed unimaginable, and whenever we make the attempt
to imagine it we can perceive that we really survive as spectators.
Hence....at the bottom no one believes in his own death, or to put the
same thing in another way, in the consciousness every one of us is
convinced of his own immortality....

 —Sigmund Freud

 Your essence was not born and will not die....	— Bassui

 Death is not the end; the earthly body vanishes, the immortal spirit
lives on with God....	— Union Prayer Book

 Total annihilation is impossible. We are prisoners of an infinity
without outlet, wherein nothing perishes, wherein everything is
dispersed but nothing lost. Neither a body nor a thought can drop out of
the universe, out of time and space....	 —Maurice Maeterlinck

 Eternity is not the hereafter....This is it. If you don’t get it
here, you won’t get it anywhere....	— Joseph Campbell

 Everyone carries the proof of immortality within himself, and quite
involuntarily.... — Johann W. Goethe

 Eternity has no end, therefore no beginning; consequently eternity is a
circle....	 —Anana

 All men’s souls are immortal, but the souls of the righteous are both
immortal and divine.... — Socrates

 Your mind does not know you are immortal, although it may believe if it
has been taught. Only through an awakening of your divine nature will
you know that you are immortal....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 Immortality /Eternity

 The sum of all sums is eternity....

 —Lucretius

 If there is anything in me that is of permanent worth and service to
the universe, the universe will know how to preserve it....	— Horace
J. Bridges

 The few years we spend on earth are only the first scene in a Divine
Drama that extends on into Eternity....

 —Edwin Markham

 Without a belief in personal immortality, religion is like an arch
resting on one pillar, or like a bridge ending in an abyss.... — Max
Muller

 Deprived of the hope for immortality, man....is the most wretched being
on earth....	— Moses Mendelssohn

 In the presence of eternity, the mountains are as transient as the
clouds....	-— Robert Ingersoll

 It is immortality, and that alone, which amid life’s pains....the
soul can comfort, elevate and fill.... — Edward Young

 Immortality, to me, is the continuity of our spiritual existence after
death. Since the dawn of history man has believed in immortality....

 —Werner Von Braun

 It is eternity now. I am in the midst of it. It is about me in the
sunshine; I am in it, as the butterfly in the light-laden air. Nothing
has to come, it is now. Now

 is eternity; now is the immortal life	

 -—Richard Jefferies

 There is only one way to get ready for immortality, and that is to love
this life and live it as bravely and faithfully and cheerfully as we
can....

 -—Henry van Dyke .

 271 *	Immortality/Eternity

 The created world is but a smallparenthesis in eternity....

 —Thomas Browne

 There can be no purity in anything thatis not everlasting....	—
Hermes

 The spirit of man, which God inspired,cannot together perish with
thiscorporeal clod....	— John Milton

 I believe in immortality....because itsdenial seems to me to lend the
entirerace in a hopeless situation....

 —Harry E. Fosdick

 Nothing but beauty and wisdomdeserve immortality....	— Will Durant

 Eternity has no gray hairs. The flowersfade, the heart withers, man
grows oldand dies, the world lies down in thesepulchre of ages, but time
writes nowrinkles on the brow of eternity....

 —Reginald Heber

 What we call eternity may be but anendless series of transitions which
mencall deaths, abandonments of home,going ever to fairer scenes and
loftierheights....	— Edmund Bulwer-Lytton

 No man can pass into eternity, for he isalready in it....	— Frederic
Farrar

 God created man to be immortal, andmade him in the image of his
owneternity....

 —- Apocrypha: Wisdom of Solomon

 In our quiet moments, when we are notrelating to traditional
thinkingpatterns, we are certain of our ownimmortality and of the
promise lifeholds for us. We know that we did notbegin at conception,
and that we willnot end when the body is no longerable to serve our
needs....

 —Roy E. Davis

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Immortality /Eternity

 Whatsoever that be within us that feels, thinks, desires, and animates,
is something celestial, divine, and consequently, imperishable....

 —Aristotle

 Nothing is eternal but the laws of God....	— Allan Kardec

 When we leave this plane of experience, I think we graduate to the next
phase of our ongoingness of life itself. And we continue by stages. For
example, in the first grade we didn’t have to know everything
perfectly, but we had to know enough to get into the second grade, and
so on from there, building on what we learned. That’s my picture of
what immortality is all about....	— H.	Frederick Vogt

 Immortality is the belief in the worthlessness and nothingness of this
life....	— Ludwig A. Feuerbach

 I am a better believer, and all serious souls are better believers, in
immortality than we can give grounds for....The blazing evidence of
immortality is our dissatisfaction with any other solution....	— Ralph
W. Emerson

 Immortality is the great world of light that lies behind all human
destinies....

 —Henry W. Longfellow

 &

  Journey 

 H

 e that will not sail until all dan-gers are over, will never put to

 sea....	— Thomas Fuller

 Do you know....Where you are....On your journey?...	— Deng Ming-Dao

 272 *	Journey

 Don’t be afraid to take a big step if one is indicated. You can’t
cross a chasm in two small jumps.... — David L. George

 If you want to go east, don’t go west....

 —Ramakrishna

 Whenever I prepare for a journey I prepare for death. Should I never
return; all is in order. This is what life has taught me....	—
Katherine Mansfield

 Whether we know it or not, we are all on a journey beyond belief....

 —Roger Walsh

 The path to God is not an easy one. You have to make your mind and
intellect absolutely pure....	— Papa Ramdas

 Every part of an element separated from its mass desires to return to
it by the shortest way....

 —Leonardo Da Vinci

 The true path is through the sky and so has no landmarks and no
description. All described paths are but tracing on the earth the shadow
of one who has gone in the sky....It is a difficult, a heartbreaking
path. None can tread it to the end who does not want it more than he
wants any other thing....

 —Krishnaprem

 You do not travel the pilgrim’s path alone, forsaken, or unaided. He
who sent you is still with you. He has not left you alone....	— Elinor
MacDonald

 What a long journey! What a lot of trouble! Especially considering that
I was there all the time....	— Kuleki

 To reach the port of heaven, we must sail sometimes with the wind and
sometimes against it—but we must sail, and not drift, nor lie at
anchor....

 —Oliver W. Holmes

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890       shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890    
  shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Journey

 273

 -  -

 Journey

 It is strange that though all must tread the path of life, so few know
whither they are going! We wander from cradle to the tomb, yet know not
our true destination which is not the tomb but rather the discovery of
our “Super- Self.”...	— Pierre Schmidt

 If you don’t see the path that meets your eye how will your feet know
the way?...	— Shit ou

 The last laps of all paths are the same— surrender of the ego....

 —Ramana Maharshi

 Two roads diverged in a wood, and I—I took the one least traveled by,
and that has made all the difference....

 —Robert Frost

 It is not enough to know the way; we must travel it....	— Alice H.
Rice

 One can only make progress on the spiritual path if one is prepared to
give up all one’s attachments....

 -—Annamalai Swami

 When you go on a pilgrimage, it directs the mind towards God. But
remember—God is within....	-— Yoga Swami

 The distance is nothing: it is only the first step that is
difficult....

 —Marie A. du Deffand

 There is no glimpse of the light without walking the path. You can’t
get it from anyone else, nor can you give it to anyone. You take
whatever steps seem easiest for you, and as you take a few steps it will
be easier to take a few more....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 Do not follow a path. Follow your own footsteps. Your path will create
itself....

 —Paul Williams

 <&?

 The real voyage of discovery consists not in seeking new landscapes but
in having new eyes....	— Marcel Proust

 The path is smooth that leadeth onto danger....	— William Shakespeare

 Not I, not anyone else, can travel that road for you. You must travel
it yourself....	— Walt Whitman

 There is no such thing as a spiritual journey; what there is, is a
spiritual awakening....	— Anonymous

 Buddha left a road map, Jesus left a road map, Krishna left a road map,
Rand McNally left a road map. But you still have to travel the road
yourself....

 —Stephin Levine

 The spiritual journey is individual, highly personal. It can’t be
organized or regulated. It isn’t true that everybody should follow one
path. Listen to your own truth....	-— Ram Dass

 Like the sharp edge of a razor, the sages say, is the path. Narrow it
is, and difficult to tread....

 —The Upanishads

 You are constantly being sent signs from the universe about what path
to take....	— Sanaya Roman

 Genuine beginnings begin within us, even when they are brought to our
attention by external opportunities....

 —William Bridges

 To journey hopefully is better than to arrive....	— Chinese proverb

 A tree as big around as you can reach starts with a small seed; a
journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step....	— Lao-tzu

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Journey	*	2

 Life is a pilgrimage where man drags his feet along the rough and
thorny road....There is no stopping-place in this pilgrimage....When the
road ends, and the Goal is gained the pilgrim finds that he has traveled
only from himself to himself....	— Sathya Sai Baba

 The life of man is a journey that must be traveled, however bad the
roads or the accommodations....

 —Oliver Goldsmith

 What we call the beginning is often the end and to make our end is to
make the beginning. The end is where we start from....	— T. S. Eliot

 True progress quietly and persistently moves along without notice....

 —Francis de Sales

 For a small reward a man will hurry away on a long journey, while for
eternal life many will hardly take a single step....	— Thomas a Kempis

 Wide is the gate, and broad is the way, that leads to destruction, and
many there be who go that way, because strait is the gate, and narrow is
the way, which leads to life, and few there be that find it....	—
Jesus

 Let us watch well our beginnings, and the results will manage
themselves....

 —Alex Clark

 There is a path to walk on, there is walking being done, but there is
no traveler. There are deeds being done, but there is no doer....

 —Gautama Buddha

 The spiritual path is one of falling on your face, getting up, brushing
yourself off, turning and looking sheepishly at God and then taking the
next step....

 —Aurobindo

 4   ♦? 	 Journey

 Transformation is a journey without a final destination....

 —Marilyn Ferguson

 The path of the seeker is full of pitfalls and temptations, and the
seeker must walk it alone with God. I would recommend that you keep your
feet on the ground and your thoughts at lofty heights....	— Peace
Pilgrim

 The journey is in yourself. You travel along the highways of the inner
world. Without inner movement it is impossible to bring forth
anything....The inner journey must never be without direction....	—
Darwin Gross

 Two persons may be traveling side by side in the same direction with
perhaps even a common destination. Yet both may be marching on variant
paths. How is this possible? If one is marching uphill and the other
downhill then they are traveling in dissimilar dimensions and are only
side by side for a short length of time....	— Shantidasa

 What is the use of going over the old track again?...You must make
tracks into the unknown....

 —Henry D. Thoreau

 The world stands aside to let anyone pass who knows where he is
going....

 —David S. Jordan

 The longest journey is the journey inward....	— Dag Hammarskjold

 People who are far from God think they are very near to Him, when they
take a few steps to approach him....

 —Francois Fenelon

 What is the path? Everyday life is the path....	— Nansen

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Journey 	 ♦? 	 2

 A fool beholds only the beginnings of his works, but a wise man taketh
heed to the end....	— Anonymous

 He travels the fastest who travels alone....	— Rudyard Kipling

 The spiritual quest is a journey without distance. You travel from
where you are right now to where you have always been. From ignorance to
recognition....

 —Anthony de Mello

 You speak of paths as if you were somewhere and the Self somewhere else
and you had to go and attain it. But in fact the Self is here and now
and you are it always....	 —Ramana Maharshi

 Long is the road from conception to completion....	— Jean B. Moliere

 The first step is what counts: First beginnings are hardest to make and
as small and inconspicuous as they are potent in influence, but once
they are made, it is easy to add to the rest....

 —Aristotle

 To take a journey of a thousand miles, you have to begin with the first
step from the place where you stand; the romantic description of the
journey and the things the body sees on the way and the description of
the scenery are of no use unless you lift your foot and take the first
step....

 —Vimala Thakar

 Any path is only a path, and there is no affront, to oneself or to
others, in dropping it if that is what your heart tells you....	—
Carlos Castaneda

 It is good to have an end to journey towards; but it is the journey
that matters in the end....

 —Ursula LeGuin

 5  ♦?	 Journey

 From of old there were not two paths. “Those who have arrived” all
walked the same road....	— Zenrin

 Sometimes, mistakes or unforeseen circumstances can knock our roads so
far off-course that it might be easier and more productive to change our
destinations....	— Lois Wolfe-Morgan

 If you do not know the way, seek where His footprints are....	— Rumi

 We think we must climb to a certain height of goodness before we can
reach God. But He says not, “At the end of the way you may find me.”
He says, “I am the Way; I am the road under your feet, the road that
begins just as low down as you happen to be.”...

 —Helen Wodehouse

 Weary the path that does not challenge....	 —Hosea Ballou

 You will never stub your toe standing still. The faster you go, the
more chance of stubbing your toe, but the more chance you have of
getting somewhere....	— Charles F. Kettering

 The magnetic needle always points toward the north, and hence the
sailing vessel does not lose her course. So long as the heart of man is
directed towards God, he cannot be lost in the ocean of worldliness....
— Ramakrishna

 For thirty years I went in search of God, and when I opened my eyes at
the end of this time, I discovered that it was really He who sought for
me....

 —Bayazid al-Bistami

 Where there is no road, a new road must be trodden....	— Joseph
Hurwitz

 To travel hopefully is better than to arrive, and the true success is
labor....

 —Robert L. Stevenson

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Journey

 In order to know what lies on the road ahead, it might be well to
question those travelers who are making their way back....	— Anonymous

 Let no one be deluded that a knowledge of the path can substitute for
putting one foot in front of the other....	— M. C. Richards

 Many roads lead to God. Travel any one of them you like and I’m sure
you’ll come within God’s reach....

 —Claud H. Foster

 The happiest journey is not made with downcast eyes which see only
tired, dusty feet. It is made with uplifted sight to appreciate the
visible panorama, and with imagination to understand its significance
and to picture what may be beyond....

 —Edward B. Newill

 One step makes the next one easier; that is the excellence of the
spiritual journey. At each step, your strength and confidence increase
and you get bigger and bigger installments of Grace....	— Sathya Sai
Baba

 No two human beings have made, or ever will make, exactly the same
journey in life....	— Arthur Keith

 As long as you are outside the door, a good portion of the journey is
behind you....	— Scandinavian saying

 The road to pleasure is downhill and very easy, so that one does not
walk but is dragged along; the way of self-control is uphill, toilsome
no doubt, but exceedingly profitable....	— Philo

 The true way goes over a rope which is not stretched at any great
length, but just over the ground. It is more designed to make people
stumble than to be walked on....	— Franz Kafka

 Journey

 nspp	

 The man who is strong, who hasresolved to find the unknown path,takes
with utmost care every step. Heutters no idle word, he does
nounconsidered action, he neglects noduty or office however homely
orhowever difficult....	— Mabel Collins

 There is no road too long to the manwho advances deliberately and
withoutundue haste; there are no honors toodistant to the man who
prepareshimself for them with patience....

 —Jean La Bruy ere

 And how, you ask, are we to walk thespiritual path? We answer: say
little,and love much; give all; judge no man;aspire to all that is pure
and good....

 —White Eagle

 Know the universe itself as a road, asmany roads, as roads for
travelingsouls....	— Walt Whitman

 As we progress along the spiritual pathwe meet with the tests of
ourapprenticeship. Before each stepforward there is always the
testingtime. When it arrives, if we do notfalter, and, above all, do not
think thatit is evil, or that we have donesomething wrong, or that we
aresuffering from an injustice, we find it isall good....	— Henry T.
Hamblin

 There is a well-worn road which ispleasing to the senses and
gratifiesworldly desires, but leads to nowhere.

 And there is a less traveled path, which

 requires purifications and relinquish-ments, but results in untold
spiritualblessings....	— Peace Pilgrim

 At the beginning of the spiritual path,

 we are like children whose only realknowledge of themselves is a
reflectioncast in a mirror....	— Rick Fields

 ♦?  276  ♦?

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Journey 	 ♦? 	 2

 My path hitherto has been like a road through diversified country, now
climbing high mountains, then descending into the vales. From the
summits I saw the heavens; from the vales I look up at the heights
again....

 —Henry D. Thoreau

 You must dare to disassociate yourself from those who would delay your
journey....Leave, depart, if not physically, than mentally. Go your own
way, quietly, undramatically, and venture toward trueness at last....

 —Vernon Howard

 To set one’s face in the right direction, and then simply travel on,
will in time bring one into the realization of the highest life that can
even be conceived of—it is the secret of all attainment....

 —Ralph W. Trine

 God leaves man free to choose his road; so much the worst for him if he
takes the wrong one; his pilgrimage will be all the longer....	— Allan
Kardec

 I would rather walk with God in the dark then go alone in the light....

 —Mary G. Brainard

 *

  Joy 

 T

 he world is not a hell. It is all blisswhen ego and likes and dislikes

 die away....	— Sivananda

 The lucky folks are the ones who get to do things they enjoy doing....

 —Jerome Kern

 One joy scatters a hundred griefs....

 —Chinese proverb

 7  ♦?	 Joy

 Joy is the serious business of Heaven....

 —C.  S. Lewis

 I cannot believe that the inscrutable universe turns on an axis of
suffering; surely the strange beauty of the world must somewhere rest in
pure joy....

 —Louise Bogan

 To pursue joy is to lose it....

 —Alexander Maclaren

 Spirit is never somber. Weeping with the afflicted does not help. It
may create a point of contact, but it does not bring a remedy. Joy is
the antidote for sorrow....	— Paramananda

 Real joy comes not from ease or riches or from the praise of men, but
from doing something worthwhile....

 —W. T. Grenfell

 Joy is not in things, it is in us....

 —Charles Wagner

 Within your own house dwells the treasury of joy; so why do you go
begging from door to door?...

 —Sufi saying

 Joy comes not through possession or ownership but through a wise and
loving heart....	— JackKomfield

 All days are one long laugh, all nights one joy, all life one opulence
and affluence....	— S. Nazir

 Joy is the happiness of love—love aware of its own inner happiness.
Pleasure comes from without, and joy comes from within, and it is,
therefore, within reach of everyone in the world....

 —Fulton J. Sheen

 To get the full value from joy you must have someone to divide it
with....

 —Mark Twain

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   If you have a long face and a chip
on your shoulder, if you are not radiant with joy and friendliness, if
you are not filled to overflowing with love and goodwill for all
beings....one thing is certain: you do not know God....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 The best way to show gratitude to God is to accept everything with joy.
A joyful heart is the inevitable result of a heart burning with love....

 —Mother Teresa

 Rejoice in your strength, rejoice in your talents and powers, rejoice
in the wonders of your own nature. For there is far more in you than you
ever dreamed....	— Christian D. Larson

 Joys are our wings; sorrows our spurs....

 —Jean Paul Richter

 Even if you put all the pleasures of the entire world together in one
great heap, they say that the ultimate bliss that each individual soul
is destined to attain, even one little portion of that bliss, far
outweighs the total pleasure that this world is capable of giving....

 —Chidananda

 The soul sings all the time, joy and sweetness are her garments....

 —Abraham Kook

 Ancient Egyptians believed that upon death they would be asked....two
questions and their answers would determine whether they could continue
their journey in the afterlife. The first question was, “Did you bring
joy?” The second was, “Did you find joy?”...

 —Leo Buscaglia

 The secret is, discover the fountain of joy within; that is a
never-failing, ever- full, ever-cool fountain, for it arises from
God....	— Sathya Sai Baba

 We all carry it within us: supreme strength, the fullness of wisdom,
unquenchable joy. It is never thwarted and cannot be destroyed. But it
is hidden deep, which is what makes life a problem....	— Huston Smith

 Joy is the fruit of the spirit....

 —New Testament

 True enjoyment cannot be expressed in words....	— Jean J. Rousseau

 The less you can enjoy, the poorer and scantier yourself; the more you
can enjoy, the richer and more vigorous....

 —John K. Lavater

 People are always good company when they are doing what they really
enjoy....

 —Samuel Butler

 All who would win joy must share it; happiness was born a twin....

 —George Byron

 Great joy....is apt to be silent, and dwells rather in the heart than
on the tongue....	 —Henry	Fielding

 He who enjoys doing and enjoys what he has done is happy....

 —Johann W. Goethe

 Shared joy is double joy....

 —Swedish proverb

 Lack of joyfulness in our daily tasks brings fatigue, distress and body
destroying toxins....	— Cheryl Canfield

 All the world is searching for joy and happiness, but these cannot be
purchased for any price in any marketplace, because they are virtues
that come from within....

 —Lucille R. Taylor

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Joy 	 *__z

 Where there is joy and poverty, there is neither greed and avarice....

 —Francis of Assisi

 There are some people who have the quality of richness and joy in them
and they communicate it to everything they touch. It is first of all a
physical quality; then it is a quality of the spirit....

 —Thomas C. Wolfe

 Joy follows when our inmost selves imprint their energy on passing
events....We see such joy about us in those who are able to work, even
at humdrum tasks, with grace of heart and mind....	— David Seabury

 It is fun to keep focused on the vision of our perfection. It’s fun
to deal in Reality instead of playing games. And it’s fun to see
people’s light and not their lampshades....	— Ruth Hanna

 Joy is an elation of spirit—of a spirit which trusts in the goodness
and truth of its own possessions....	— Seneca

 How could one know God and not be joyous?...	— Peace Pilgrim

 The happy man is....the man who, without any direct search for
happiness, inevitably finds joy as an added bonus in the act of forging
ahead and attaining the fullness and finality of his own self....	—
Teilhard de Chardin

 Joy is more divine than sorrow, for joy is bread and sorrow is
medicine....

 —Henry W. Beecher

 Joy  consumes time more quickly, not so grief. When men are in joy,
time passes fast; when they are in grief, it moves slow....	— Sathya
Sai Baba

 Joy is the echo of God’s life within us....

 —Joseph Marmion

 9  * 	 Judgement

 There’s only one reason why you’re not experiencing bliss at this
present moment, and it’s because you’re thinking or focusing on what
you don’t have....	— Anthony de Mello

 Joy of life seems to arise from a sense of being where one
belongs....All the discontented people I know are trying sedulously to
be something they are not, to do something they cannot do....

 —David Grayson

 Joy is....to will what God wills, to want what He wants....	— Meister
Eckhart

 Joy is very infectious; therefore, be always full of joy....	— Mother
Teresa

 Joy is the feeling of grinning inside....

 —Melba Colgrove

  Judgement 

 E

 very man has a right to be valuedat his best moment....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 To judge is to see clearly, to care for what is just and therefore to
be impartial, more exactly, to be disinterested, more exactly still, to
be impersonal 	— Henri F. Amiel

 Judge a tree from its fruit, not from the leaves....	— Euripides

 Virtually all people are a mixture of good and bad. It is very rare to
find someone wholly good or wholly bad. If you have to come into contact
with a lot of people, try to make yourself aware of their good points
and don’t dwell on their bad points....

 —Annamalai Swami

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Judgement	*	2

 Prejudice does not think logically. It does not ask why, and remains on
the deceptive surface. The mark of the sage is the lack of prejudice,
that of a fool, the lack of thought....

 — Hans-Ulrich Rieker

 Whoever undertakes to set himself up as a judge of Truth and Knowledge
is shipwrecked by the laughter of the gods....	— Albert Einstein

 Judgement always rests in the past, for past experience is the basis on
which you judge. Judgement becomes impossible without the past, for
without it you do not understand anything....

 —A Course In Miracles

 Judgements are beliefs about the past that lead us away from the
here-and- now....	— Anonymous

 Duty largely consists of pretending that the trivial is critical....
— John Fowles

 When the need to be right is a driving force instead of just a
preference, it is very heavy baggage.... — Judith Sills

 You should not say it is not good. You should say you do not like it,
and then, you know, you’re perfectly safe....

 —James M. Whistler

 We turn to using quantities when we can’t compare the qualities....

 —Marvin Minsky

 When you pass judgement on your essence, who is doing the judging? The
answer is, some part of you that is not your essence: your opinions,
your thoughts, your habits, your fears....

 —Paul Williayns

 Judge a man by his questions rather than by his answers....	—
Voltaire

 0 *	Judgement

 5 s  	

 As we persist in judging one another by what we appear to be, we are
all taking part in a great masquerade....

 —Joel Goldsmith

 The judgement of God shall turn topsyturvy the judgements of men....

 —Edward F. Garesche

 You judge by human standards, I judge no one....	— Jesus

 The less harshly we judge ourselves, the more accepting we become of
others....	— Harold Bloomfield

 All that glitters is not gold....

 —John Dryden

 Judging others will avail you nothing and injure you spiritually. Only
if you can inspire others to judge themselves will anything worthwhile
have been accomplished. When you approach others in judgement they will
be on the defensive. When you are able to approach them in a kindly,
loving manner without judgement they will tend to judge themselves and
be transformed....	— Peace Pilgrim

 No man can judge another, because no man knows himself....

 —Thomas Browne

 Examine the contents of the bottle, not the bottle....	— The Talmud

 Constantly I am having to fight and overcome my prejudices because I
realize that first impressions and judgements are often misleading....

 —Harvey Day

 Man measures everything by his own experiences; he has no other
yardstick....

 —Dorothy L. Sayers

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065    Judgement 

 We do not judge men by what they are in themselves, but what they are
relatively to us....	— Ann S. Swetchine

 Actions will be judged according to intentions....	— Mohammed

 It is wrong, it is sinful, to consider some people lower than
ourselves....

 —Mohandas Gandhi

 Wisdom is not to be found in making divisions and comparisons....

 —Maitreya

 Men are not to be judged by their looks, habits and appearances; but by
the character of their lives and conversations, and by their works....

 —Roger L’Estrange

 All general judgements are loose and imperfect....	— Michel Montaigne

 Every person’s map of the world is as unique as their thumbprint.
There are no two people alike. No two people who understand the same
sentence the same way....So in dealing with people you try not to fit
them to your concept of what they should be....

 —Milton Erickson

 While man judges another from his own moral standpoint, the wise man
looks also at the point of view of another....	— Hazrat Inayat Khan

 In judging of others a man laboreth in vain....How seldom we weigh our
neighbor in the same balance with ourselves....	— Thomas a Kempis

 Observe things as they are and don’t pay attention to other
people....

 —Huang Po

 Appearances often are deceiving....

 —Aesop

  Judgement 

 Foolish men imagine that becausejudgement for an evil is delayed,
thereis no judgement....	— Thomas Carlyle

 We judge ourselves by what we feelcapable of doing, while others judge
usby what we have already done....

 —Henry W. Longfellow

 Human nature is so constituted, thatwe see and judge better in the
affairs ofothers more than in our own....

 —Terence

 The soul’s impurity consists in badjudgements, and purification
consistsin producing right judgements, and thepure soul is one which has
rightjudgements....	— Epictetus

 We must never undervalue anyperson....	— Francis de Sales

 I have never for one instant seenclearly within myself. How then
wouldyou have me judge the deeds ofothers?...	— Maurice Maeterlinck

 God casts no soul away, unless it castsitself away. Every soul is its
ownjudgement....	— Jakob Bohme

 It is much more ennobling to thehuman spirit to let people
judgethemselves than to judge them....

 —Stephen R. Covey

 You may judge a flower or a butterflyby its looks, but not a
humanbeing....(Only) fools judge men by theiroutside....	—
Rabindranath Tagore

 Everything that exists in the world doesso independently of your
opinion aboutit....	— Wayne Dyer

 The thought of judgement, criticismand condemnation must, in
time,operate against the one who sets it into

 motion....	— Ernest Holmes

 *  281  *

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Judgement 	♦?	 2

 To prove yourself right is just another way to prove another person
wrong....

 —Anonymous

 When you judge people, you have no time to love them....	— Mother
Teresa

 The Great Way is not difficult—just cease to cherish opinions....

 —Third Zen Patriarch

 Great Spirit, grant that I may not judge my neighbor until I have
walked a mile in his moccasins....

 —American Indian prayer

 Withhold judgement and criticism. The human way is to judge in haste
the actions of others, but the divine way is to remain quiet and
loving....

 —White Eagle

 Thankfulness is an antidote to judgement....	— Michael Exeter

 Judge not, and you shall not be judged; condemn not and you shall not
be condemned; forgive, and you shall be forgiven....	— Jesus

 Enjoy your life without comparing it with that of others....

 —Marquis de Condorcet

 The superior man does not set his mind either for or against
anything....

 —Confucius

 We should hesitate to pronounce judgement on the conduct of.... eminent
men, lest we fall into the common error of condemning what we do not
understand.... — Quintilian

 We  are all wise when we admonish others, and yet we know not when we
trip ourselves....	— Euripides

 It is a sin to call a person a sinner....

 —Vivekananda

 2  ♦?	 Kindness/Gentleness

 ?  	

 When you demand justice for yourself, you demand it for the whole race.
If you allow yourself to be dominated, brow-beaten or cheated by others
without inward or outward protest, you are condoning deceit and
trickery. You are in league with it....

 —Prentice Mulford

 One man’s word is no man’s word; we should quietly hear both
sides....

 —Johann W. Goethe

 There is a criterion by which you can judge whether the thoughts you
are thinking and the things you are doing are right for you. The
criterion is: Have they brought you inner peace?...

 —Peace Pilgrim

 Judgement consists not in seeing through deceptions and evil
intentions, but in being able to awaken the decency dormant in every
person....

 —Eric Hoffer

 The perfect way is difficult for those who pick and choose. We should
not like, nor should we dislike, and all will become clear...	— Sen
Ts’an

  Kindness/ Gentleness 

 L

 ife is not so short but that there isalways time enough for
courtesy....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 Kindness costs nothing....

 —Irish proverb

 There is no strength that compares to that of gentleness....	—
Anonymous

 Civility costs nothing and buys everything....	— Mary W. Montagu

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890       shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   
Kindness/Gentleness 

 283

 - ‘Xf P -

 Kindness/Gen tleness

 The motto of a gentle man might well be, “I must never force
things.”...

 —Adrian van Kaam

 Always meet petulance with gentleness, and perverseness with kindness.
A gentle hand can lead even an elephant by a hair. Reply to thine enemy
with gentleness. Opposition to peace is sin....

 —Zoroaster

 True kindness presupposes the faculty of imagining as one’s own the
suffering and joys of others.... — Andre Gide

 One can always be kind to people about whom one cares nothing....

 —Oscar Wilde

 The greatest things in life are the ordinary, everyday humanities:
Speaking kindly to people, speaking kindly of people, doing kindness for
people....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 What wisdom can you find that is greater than kindness?...

 —Jean J. Rousseau

 One kind word can warm three winter nights....	— Oriental saying

 Kindness in words creates confidence. Kindness in thinking creates
profoundness. Kindness in giving creates love....	— Lao-tzu

 Gentleness is not a quality exclusive to women....	— Helen Reddy

 Nobody appears inferior to us when our heart is kindled with
kindness....

 —Hazrat Inayat Khan

 Kind words can be short and easy to speak but their echoes are truly
endless....	— Mother Teresa

 If you stop to be kind, you must swerve often from your path.... —
Mary Webb

 Speak kindly today; when tomorrow comes you will be in practice....

 —Proverb

 It is nature’s kindness that we do not remember past births....

 —Mohandas Gandhi

 Kindness is the root of righteousness. Kindness is the enemy of
cruelty, harshness, rudeness. It softens the heart. It opens the door to
heaven....

 —Sivananda

 Let us be kinder to one another....

 —Aldous Huxley

 Be straightforward, yet mild; gentle, yet dignified; strong, but
untyrannical; energetic, but not arrogant; tolerant, yet stem; mild, yet
firm....	— Shu King

 Kindness is the mightiest practical force in the universe....

 —Charles F. Dole

 The highest form of wisdom is kindness....	— The Talmud

 Let us open up our natures, throw wide the doors of our hearts and let
in the sunshine of good will and kindness....

 —Orison S. Marden

 The best portion of a good man’s life is his little, nameless,
unremembered acts of kindness....	— William Wordsworth

 Gentleness can only come when we think of God’s greatness. Because we
forget Him, our pride raises its head....

 —Papa Ramdas

 Kindness is the beginning and the end of the law....	— Hebrew proverb

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Kindness/Gentleness	*	284	*

 	**5p-

 1 suspect to pass through life but once. If therefore there be any
kindness I can show, or any good thing I can do to my fellow-being, let
me do it now, and not defer or neglect it, as I shall not pass this way
again....	— William Penn

 Kindness is gladdening the hearts of those who are traveling in the
dark with us....	— Henri F. Amiel

 Paradise is open to all kind hearts....

 —Pierre de Beranger

 Kind words are the music of the world. They have a power which seems to
be beyond natural causes, as if they were some angel’s song which had
lost its way and come to earth....

 —Frederick W. Faber

 You cannot do a kindness too soon, for you never know how soon it will
be too late....	— Ralph W. Emerson

 Kindness is a language the dumb can speak and deaf can hear....

 —Christian Bovee

 Kindness is a golden chain by which society is bound together....

 —Johann W. Goethe

 A kind heart is a fountain of gladness, making everything in its
vicinity freshen into smiles....

 -—Washington Irving

 A  word of kindness is seldom spoken in vain....	— George Prentice

 Kindness means doing a lot of little things kindly and always, not just
a big thing now and then....

 —Neville Hobson

 He who is kind and courteous to strangers thereby shows himself a
citizen of the world....	— Anonymous

 Kindness/Gentleness

 Kindness is the sunshine in which virtue grows....	— Robert Ingersoll

 It is the weak who are cruel. Gentleness can only be expected from the
strong....

 —Leo Rosten

 The cheapest of all things is kindness, its exercise requiring the
least possible trouble and self-sacrifice....

 —Samuel Smiles

 It is a duty to cultivate kindness....

 —Aaron Halevi

 Kindness works simply and perse- veringly....Hence it is the furthest
reaching and the most effective of all forces....	 —Albert Schweitzer

 We may scatter the seeds of courtesy and kindness about us at little
expense....	— Jeremy Bentham

 When kindness has left people, even for a few moments, we become afraid
of them, as if their reason had left them....

 —Willa Cather

 Gentleness is a divine trait: nothing is so strong as gentleness and
nothing so gentle as real strength....

 —Ralph Sockman

 The great mind knows the power of gentleness....	— Robert Browning

 We cannot be just unless we are kind- hearted....

 —Luc de Clapiers Vauvenargues

 To cultivate kindness is a valuable part of the business of life....

 —Samuel Johnson

 Kindness in ourselves is the honey that blunts the sting of unkindness
in another....	— Walter Lander

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Kindness/Gentleness	*	285	*
Laughter

 	nqps*	

 Kindness is wisdom....

 —Philip J. Bailey

 I often wonder why people do not make more of the marvelous power there
is in kindness. It is the greatest lever to move the hearts of men that
the world has ever known....

 —Andrew Chapman

 Don’t repay a kindness; pass it on....

 —Proverb

 A more glorious victory cannot be gained over another man than this,
that when the injury began on his part, the kindness should begin on
ours....

 —John Tillotson

 Let me be a little kinder, let me be a little blinder to the faults of
those around me....	— Edgar A. Guest

 One kind word wins more willing service than a hundred harsh orders or
stern reproofs....	— Jean P. Camus

 Kindness has taken a bad rap in many ways, being associated with
weakness or meekness or labels like “goody- goody.” But true
kindness comes from strength, and is full of life....

 —Bo Lozoff

 No act of kindness is ever wasted; like a boomerang, kindness
eventually finds its way back to its sender....

 —Anonymous

 Loving kindness is greater than laws....

 —The Talmud

 Wherever there is a human being there is an opportunity for
kindness....

 Seneca

 Thoughtfulness, the kindly regard for others, is the beginning of
holiness....

 —Mother Teresa

 The greatness of man can nearly always be measured by his willingness
to be kind....	— Michel Simon

 He that is kind is free, though he is a slave; he that is evil is a
slave, though he be a king....	— Augustine

 Kindness begets kindness: this is a law that knows no exceptions....

 —Papa Ramdas

 In a gentle way you can shake the world....	— Mohandas Gandhi

 &

  Laughter 

 H

 umor is not a trick, not jokes.Humor is a presence in the

 world—like grace—and shines on every-body....	— Garrison Keillor

 The sound of laughter is like the vaulted dome of a temple of
happiness....

 —Milan Kundera

 Laughter is the jam on the toast of life. It adds flavor, keeps it from
being too dry and makes it easier to swallow....

 —Diane Johnson

 You never see a vain person with any sense of real humor. If he had, he
couldn’t be vain....

 —Julian P. Johnson

 What soap is to the body, laughter is to the soul....	— Yiddish
proverb

 Life is a joke, but God is laughing with us, not at us....

 —Swami Beyondananda

 Humor brings insight and tolerance....

 —Agnes Repplier

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Laughter 	♦?	 21

 	-q

 The enduring love is the love that laughs....	— George J. Watham

 Laughter can be more satisfying than honor; more precious than money;
more heart cleansing than prayer....

 —Harriet Rochlin

 Laugh and be well....

 —Matthew Green

 Good work and joyous play go hand in hand. When play stops, old age
begins. Play keeps you from taking life too seriously....	— George
Byron

 Jokes are an admirable instrument for reducing tensions....	— Robert
Mueller

 If you wish to glimpse inside a human soul and get to know a
man....just watch him laugh. If he laughs well, he’s a good man....
— Fyodor Dostoyevsky

 The joy of joys is the person of light but unmalicious humor....	—
Emily Post

 Time spent laughing is time spent with the gods....	— Japanese
proverb

 Laughter is a great soul cleanser....

 —Virginia Sale

 We should tackle reality in a slightly jokey way, otherwise we miss its
point....	 —Lawrence	Durrell

 Humor makes one’s problems seem trivial....	— E. A. Peel

 Laughter is the shortest distance between two people....	— Victor
Borge

 A keen sense of humor helps us to overlook the unbecoming, understand
the unconventional, tolerate the unpleasant, overcome the unexpected,
and outlast the unbearable....

 —Billy Graham

 6 *	Laughter

 Don’t forget the recipe of making three people laugh every day....

 —Edgar Cayce

 Fun, frivolity, merriment, are the things essential to the normal mind,
as rain is necessary to the flowers....There is always something to
laugh about every day, even if it is only about yourself....	-— Fred
Van Amburgh

 If you go to bed at night and think about your day and you haven’t
laughed very much, then you must jump out of bed and go do something
fun....	— Mario Morgan

 Laugh if you are wise....

 —Martial

 Laughing cheerfulness throws the light of day on all the paths of
life....

 —Jean Paul Richter

 He deserves paradise who makes his companions laugh....	— Koran

 All men laugh more or less, but those who laugh the most are the ones
who live the longest and enjoy the best results....	— David Gunston

 A  good laugh is sunshine in a house....

 —William M. Thackeray

 Wholesome laughter is welcome relaxation, when it is not at anyone’s
expense....	— Eknath Easwaran

 If you would find fun, live gratefully. Throw yourself into some great
cause or issue and seek to boost it towards realization....	—
JohnH.Crome

 Laughter is the closest thing to the grace of God....	-— Karl Barth

 Laughter is the brush that sweeps away the cobwebs of the heart....

 —Mort Walker

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Laughter

 287

 -   t *?V -

 Laughter

 The love of truth lies at the root of much humor....	— Robertson
Davies

 If everything goes wrong, just laugh! Just let it have its fling, let
it go; but keep your vision upon God, and know that all will come
right....

 —White Eagle

 Seriousness shows itself more majestic when laughter leads the way....

 —Heinrich Heine

 A person without a sense of humor is like a wagon without
springs—jolted by every pebble in the road....

 —Henry W. Beecher

 Never trust a God who doesn’t dance....

 —Friedrich W. Nietzsche

 God is the creator of laughter that is good....	— Philo

 Honest good humor is the oil and wine of a merry meeting, and there is
no jovial companionship equal to that where the jokes are rather small
and the laughter abundant....

 —Washington Irving

 Good humor is the health of the mind; sadness is its poison....

 —Leszczynshi Stanislaw

 Men show their character in nothing more clearly than by what they
think laughable....	— Johann W. Goethe

 If you cannot laugh at yourself, do not laugh at others....

 —Julie Sneyd

 The laughter of man is the contentment of God....	— Johann Weiss

 Laugh and the world laughs with you; weep and you weep alone....

 —Ella Wheeler Wilcox

 Laughter has something in it common with the ancient words of faith and
inspiration; it unfreezes pride and unwinds secrecy; it makes men forget
themselves in the presence of something greater than themselves....

 — G. K. Chesterton

 Laughter is a universal bond that draws all men together....	— Nathan
Ausubel

 Laughter lifts us over high ridges and lights up dark valleys in a way
that makes life so much easier. It is a priceless gem, a gift of release
and healing direct from Heaven....

 -—Alan Cohen

 The greatest prayer you could ever pray would be to laugh every day.
For when you do, it elevates the vibratory frequency within your being
such that you could heal your entire body....

 —Ramtha

 A day without laughter is a lost day....

 —Robert Muller

 Get into the habit of laughing; too many of us have forgotten how to
laugh. As people grow older, they sometimes forget that they ever
laughed. It is a part of their childhood that they can no longer
remember....

 —Maxwell Maltz

 Laughter is a tonic, the relief, the surcease for pain....

 —Charles S. Chaplin

 A man isn’t poor if he can still laugh....

 —Raymond Hitchcock

 Laughter relieves pain. You can only laugh when you are relaxed and the
more relaxed you are the less pain you feel....	— Andrew Matthews

 Laughter is inner jogging....

 —Norman Cousins

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Laughter 	♦?	 288 	♦?	 Lesson

  ■?***■?	

 Humor is a bit like Mary Poppins’ sugar—it helps the medicine go
down. A little bit of humor allows people to think about very difficult
subjects....

 —James Fadiman

 Why wait for heaven? Have fun now....Let’s choose to be like the
angels, who fly freely because they take themselves lightly.... — Ruth
Hanna

 Don’t take yourself so seriously. Laugh and play. It’s not the end
of the world if something doesn’t go right....

 —Sanaya Roman

 The person who knows how to laugh at himself will never cease to be
amused....	— Shirley MacLaine

 In laughter there is always a kind of joyousness that is incompatible
with contempt or indignation.... — Voltaire

 Learn to thrill yourself....Make everything bright and beautiful about
you. Cultivate a spirit of humor. Enjoy the sunshine....	— Baird
Spalding

 Laughter is a tranquilizer with no side effects....	— Arnold Glasow

 People who do not know how to laugh are always pompous and self-
conceited....	— William M. Thackeray

 &

  Lesson 

 T

 he hardest lesson I had to learnwas to believe in myself....

 —Robert G. Allman

 The one eternal lesson for us all is how better we can love....

 —Henry Drummond

 There are many lessons to be learned and scales to be balanced. The
laws of the universe cannot be altered for one’s convenience. Humanity
must learn to accept everything that life offers as a learning
experience....	— Peace Pilgrim

 Learning is a very painful experience. It requires humility from people
at an age where the natural habitat is arrogance....	— May Sarton

 If there is one lesson that history teaches us, it is that wealth and
power, pride and prestige, are not only transitory but even illusory....

 —Robert Mueller

 The hardest and most important lesson we have to learn is that
cheerfulness is our greatest virtue and that the happiest we’ll ever
be is while we are helping someone else....

 —Arthur E. Yensen

 That person who has not learned the lesson of saying “no” will
remain wretchedly weak throughout life....

 —Anonymous

 The biggest lesson I learned from that experience  [21 days in a
liferaft ] was that if you have all the fresh water you want to drink
and all the food you want to eat, you ought never to complain about
anything....

 —Eddie Rickenbacker

 Love is the Law of God. You live that you may learn to love. You love
that you may learn to live. No other lesson is required of man....

 —Mikhail Naimy

 Every stone that bruises the pilgrim’s foot will teach him a lesson.
Every lesson will yield a pearl....

 —Elinor MacDonald

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065    Lesson 

 All lessons are but the outer, a way of arriving at a conclusion. If
the conclusion is not reached, or the aim sought is not attained, the
lessons become driftwood, extra baggage, nothing....	 —Baird Spalding

 What we have to learn first is “how to unlearn.”...	 —Richard E.
Burton

 Real learning comes about when the competitive spirit has
ceased....This is true not only of competition with others, but
competition with yourself as well....	— J. Krishnamurti

 To learn is to change. Education is a process that changes the
learner....

 —George Leonard

 Just as a child goes to school day after day, learning lessons,
gathering experiences and passing from grade to grade, so do we in our
greater soul-life come here to earth many times, learning lessons,
gathering experience, and passing from one social grade to another....	
—Irving C. Cooper

 It is given to the world to learn one great divine lesson, the lesson
of absolute selflessness. The saints, sages and saviors of all time are
they who have submitted themselves to this task, and have learned and
lived it....

 —James Allen

 The chief lesson I have learned in a long life is the only way to make
a man trustworthy is to trust him; and the surest way to make him
untrustworthy is to distrust him and show your mistrust....	 —Henry 
Stimson

 They can conquer who believe they can. He has not learned the first
lesson of life who does not every day surmount a fear....

 —Ralph  W. Emerson

 289  ♦?	 Life

 Having learnt the lesson from a past mistake, simply forget the mistake
and you will forge ahead smoothly....

 —Homi Kharas

 Some of the best lessons we ever learn, we learn from our mistakes and
failures. The error of the past is the wisdom and success of the
future....

 —Tryon Edwards

 The greatest lesson I learned during my long life was to mind my own
business....	 —Bernard M. Baruch

 The lesson that most of us on this voyage never learn, but can never
quite forget, is that to win is sometimes to lose....	 —Richard M.
Nixon

 Our bravest and best lessons are not learned through success, but
through misadventure....	 —Amos B. Alcott

 There is no shortcut to life. To the end of our days, life is a lesson
imperfectly learned....  —Harrison E. Salisbury

 The universe is a medium in which evolvement can take place. It is a
school where people will eventually develop into the image and likeness
of God. It will exist as long as a school is needed. Only in earth life
can certain lessons be learned....	 —Peace Pilgrim

 &

  Life 

 L

 ife is going forth, death is a return-ing home....	— Lao-tzu

 The waking life is just a long dream which keeps our attention away
from what we really are....

 —Annamalai Swami

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Life is a gift from God, an
unlimited series of opportunities to find the good in ourselves and
others. There is good in everything, if we are willing to see it....	—
Alan Cohen

 What is the sense of our life, what is the sense of the life of any
living thing?...I answer: He who feels that his own life or that of his
fellow-beings is senseless is not only unhappy, but hardly capable of
living....	— Albert Einstein

 Life is a moment-to-moment happening, any attempt to possess it, save
it, or store it, is to lose the present moment....

 —A Spiritual Warrior

 Life is the only game where the object of the game is to figure out
what the rules are....	— Tom Seeley

 Life should be lived as a play....

 —Plato

 Life is a great school for the development of character, and all,
through strife and struggle, vice and virtue, success and failure, are
slowly but surely learning the lessons of wisdom....	— James Allen

 Life has been described in many ways, as a journey, a game, a battle,
an adventure....	 —Norman V. Peale

 Life is a journey from the cradle to the grave and beyond, and back to
the cradle and on from life to life. Each life is like a day in school.
We learn a few of life’s lessons each time we come back to earth, and
in time we shall learn them all....	— Amber M. Tuttle

 Life is made of marble and mud....

 —Nathaniel Hawthorne

 Life is pretty simple: You do some stuff. Most fails. Some works. You
do more of what works....	— Tom Peters

 The aim of life is to be fully born, though its tragedy is that most of
us die before we are thus born....

 —Erich Fromn

 Life is coming to form and death is coming into the formless. Life is
not separate from death; death is not separate from life. It is one
phenomenon....	— Ormond McGill

 In the final analysis, earth-life is a joke. Do not regard it
seriously. All your problems stem from seeing life in a solemn manner.
One hundred years from now you’ll be chuckling at your so-called
somberness. Lighten up!...

 -—Anonymous

 Life is full of giving and taking. If the giving is more than the
taking, then by just that much the individual rises towards a higher
life....

 —Julian P. Johnson

 Life is a compound of bitter and sweet, and to expect it to be all of
either is futile....	— Alice H. Rice

 Live your life each day as you would climb a mountain. An occasional
glance toward the summit keeps the goal in mind, but many beautiful
scenes are to be observed from each new vantage point....	 —Harold V.
Melchert

 Life is a bridge. Cross over it, but build no house on it....

 —American Indian proverb

 All I really need to know about how to live and what to do and how to
be I learned in kindergarten. Wisdom was not at the top of the
graduate-school mountain, but there in the sandpile at Sunday School....
— Robert Fulghum

 We are always getting ready to live, but never living.... — Ralph W.
Emerson

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Each man must look to himself to
teach him the meaning of life. It is not something discovered: it is
something molded....	— Antoine De Saint-Exupery

 Life is an unfoldment, and the further we travel the more truth we can
comprehend....	— Hypatia

 Life is a do-it-with-God, do-it-for-others, do-it-to-yourself
program....

 —Denis Waitley

 It is impossible to live pleasurably without living wisely, well and
justly, and impossible to live wisely, well and justly without living
pleasurably....

 —Epicurus

 When you’re not afraid to die, life becomes much more meaningful....

 —Barbara Harris

 Life is good and is always trying to do us a good turn if we will only
allow it to do so....	 —Henry T. Hamblin

 Life seems to be a series of crises that have to be faced....	— Helen
Hayes

 The earth-life is a tiny moment in eternity with much after and before.
A tiny moment in eternity and yet it’s so important....	 —Peace
Pilgrim

 Human life is only an endless illusion....	— Blaise Pascal

 What is life? It is a flash of a firefly in the night. It is a breath
of a buffalo in the wintertime. It is as the little shadow that runs
across the grass and loses itself in the sunset....

 —Isapwo Muksika

 Mortal life seems to be the unhappy interruption of our natural state
of being. When we pass on, we’re continuing our lives forward. Life is
life eternal....	— George Anderson

 Life is a voyage—a great mystical journey....	— Daniel Brinkley

 If life were eternal, all interest and anticipation would vanish. It is
uncertainty which lends it fascination....	— Yoshida Kenko

 Life is not about limitation, it’s about options....	— Brooke Knapp

 Life just is. You have to flow with it. Give yourself to the moment.
Let it happen....	 —Jerry	Brown

 Strange is our situation upon earth. Each of us comes for a short
visit, not knowing why, yet sometimes seeming to a divine purpose....

 —Albert Einstein

 Life is really simple. What we give out, we get back....	— Louise L.
Hay

 All the world’s a stage, and all the men and women merely players;
they have their entrances and exits; and one man in his time has many
parts....

 —William Shakespeare

 It is a pity that the words “spiritual life” were ever invented,
for they have caused so much confusion. For, in truth, there is only
life—everyday life— which is simply what is at every moment....	—
Robert Powell

 Life is a play. It’s an intricate board game. It contains a certain
amount of surprise, joy, depression, grief, adventure, and tragedy....
— Bob Morley

 What is life? A madness. What is life? An illusion, a shadow, a
story....

 —Pedro Calderon

 Let each man think himself an act of God, his mind a thought, his life
a breath of God....	— Phillip J. Bailey

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Life	*	2

 The life which is unexamined is not worth living....	— Plato

 Life, like any other exciting story, is bound to have painful and scary
parts, boring and depressing parts, but it’s a brilliant story, and
it’s up to us how it will turn out in the end....	— Bo Lozoff

 No one can control life but everyone can be in charge of their reaction
to it....

 —Anonymous

 Life is always forcing us to compromise....	— Jawaharlal Nehru

 The art of living does not consist in preserving and clinging to a
particular mood of happiness, but in allowing happiness to change its
form without being disappointed by the change....

 —Charles L. Morgan

 One word frees us from the weight and pain of life; that word is
love....

 —Sophocles

 Man is not made to understand life, but to live it....	— George
Santayana

 Love says: “I am everything.” Wisdom says: “1 am nothing.”
Between the two my life flows....	— Jack Komfield

 To fear love is to fear life....

 —Bertrand Russell

 Life is like hot iron, ready to pour. Choose the mold, and life will
burn it....

 —William Buck

 Life is a pure flame, and we live by an invisible Sun within us....

 —Thomas Browne

 The great tragedy of life is not that men perish, but that they cease
to love....

 —Somerset Maugham

 2 *	Life

 ?  	

 All the arts are apprenticeship. The big

 art is life....	—M. C.  Richards

 Life is a battle—you must enter into it fully, and do what needs to
be done. You cannot shrink from your duty. Life presents difficult,
sometimes horrendous, situations, unwelcome tasks, and obstacles of
every sort. Despite this harsh reality, you must resolutely go
forward....	 —Piero Ferrucci

 Life is no thing or state of a thing, but a continuous movement or
change....

 — S. Radhakrishnan

 Life itself turns out to be nothing more or less than a giant Rorschach
test....

 — U. S. Anderson

 If we but knew how short is the earth life in comparison with the
whole, we would be less troubled with the difficulties of the earth life
than we are troubled now with the difficulties of one of our days....
— Peace Pilgrim

 Every man’s life is a plan of God....

 —Horace Bushnell

 The real test of a happy life is to see how much pain and loss and
frustration can be endured and absorbed without spoiling the joy of
it....

 —Rufus M. Jones

 Naked and empty-handed you came here; empty handed and naked you
depart. Results?—nothing: simply treading the wheel....	— Julian P.
Johnson

 Pain and death are part of life. To reject them is to reject life
itself....

 —Havelock Ellis

 Life is like that, one stitch at a time, taken patiently, and the
pattern will come out all right, like the embroidery....	— Oliver W.
Holmes

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Life 	 ♦? 	 2

 Be fixed, be firm, be steadfast, for life is too short to shift to and
fro. The stickers are the successes. The failures flit. We cannot step
in after we step out. Life will not wait....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 Life’s supreme adventure is the adventure of living. Life’s
greatest achievement is the continual remaking of yourself so at last
you do know how to live....	— Winfred Rhodes

 Life is too brief to waste even one moment in useless regret or vain
expectation....	— Dorothy Strange

 The man who has no inner life is the slave of his surroundings....

 —Henri F. Amiel

 Life is not a matter of holding good cards, but playing a poor hand
well....

 —Robert L. Stevenson

 Life is like a game of cards. The hand that is dealt you represents
determinism; the way you play it is free will....	— Jawaharlal Nehru

 For a long time it had seemed to me that life was about to begin—real
life. But there was always some obstacle in the way, something to be got
through first, some unfinished business, time still to be served, a debt
to be paid. At last it dawned on me that those obstacles were my
life....

 —Alfred D’souza

 Life teaches us to be less harsh with ourselves and with others....

 —Johann W. Goethe

 Life is difficult. This is a great truth, one of the greatest truths.
It is a great truth because once we see this truth, we transcend it....
—-M.  Scott Peck

 3  ♦?	 Life

 Human life may be reverently compared to an opera. God is the author of
the music, and He gives each person the part he is to take....

 —George H. Hepworth

 Life will give you what you ask of her if only you ask long enough and
plain enough....	— E. Nesbit

 Life is a glass given us to fill....

 —William A. Brown

 The world is a great stage on which God displays His many wonders....

 —Francis Sales

 Life is tension. Without tension, there could be no life. Too little
tension or too much tension interferes with the process of life in the
same way a string of a guitar interferes with the melody when it is
either too loose or too tight....

 —Bruno Geba

 Only a life lived for others is a life worthwhile....	— Albert
Einstein

 Life vibrates. It does not move....

 —Vimala Thakar

 Life breaks us all. There’s not one of us who can stand up to life by
ourselves. If we try, we’re going to stumble....

 —Max Cleland

 Life is more than just trying to get everything; life is learning not
to be attached to anything.... — Anonymous

 Life is a flower of which love is the honey....	— Victor Hugo

 Life is like the shadow of a bird in flight....	— The Talmud

 I have found that if you love life, life will love you back....

 —Arthur Rubinstein

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065    Life 

 Life is a journey from impurity to purity, from hatred to cosmic love,
from death to immortality, from slavery to freedom, from imperfection to
perfection, from pain to eternal bliss, from diversity to unity, from
ignorance to eternal wisdom, and from weakness to strength....	—
Sivananda

 As you watch it, your life turns to dust....	— Kabir

 Life is a campaign against foes, it is a battle with obstacles,
temptations, hardships and limitations. These foes are within man and so
the battle has to be incessant and perpetual....

 —Sathya Sai Baba

 Life is one-way, its law is the same for all, it moves only
forwards....

 —Paul Toumier

 Life can be pulled by goals just as surely as it can be pushed by
drives....

 —Victor Frankl

 Life is a series of surprises....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 Life is a dream for the wise, a game for the fool, a comedy for the
rich, a tragedy for the poor....

 —Shalom Aleichem

 He who has a why to live can bear with almost any how....

 —Friedrich W. Nietzsche

 The greatest use for life is to spend it for something that will
outlast it....

 —Henry James

 Whoever refuses to take risks pays the penalty of loss of life in one
form or another....	— Alexis Carrel

 Life is not first lived and then understood; it is poorly lived till
understood....	— George A. Gordon

  Life 

 Life is a fragment, a moment between two eternities....

 —William E. Channing

 The true meaning of life is to plant trees, under whose shade you do
not expect to sit....	— Nelson Henderson

 Life’s a voyage that’s homeward bound....	— Herman Melville

 The mystery of life is that everybody dies, but nobody believes they
will. It’s only when we understand and accept this inevitability that
we really begin living....	— Bemie Siegal

 Life is the childhood of our immortality....	— Johann W. Goethe

 Life’s but a walking shadow, a poor player that struts and frets his
hour upon the stage and then is heard no more: it is a tale told by an
idiot, full of sound and fury, signifying nothing....

 —William Shakespeare

 The sense of living is joy enough....

 —Emily Dickinson

 Life is a one-way street. No matter how many detours you take, none of
them leads back....	— Isabel Moore

 The aim of life is to live, and to live means to be aware, joyously,
drunken- ly, serenely, divinely aware....

 —Henry Miller

 The meaning of life is the road, not the goal....	 —Arthur	Schnitzler

 There is no cure for birth and death save to enjoy the interval....

 —George Santayana

 Life is ours to be spent, not to be saved....	— D. H. Lawrence

 *   294  ♦?

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   To live is the rarest thing in the
world; most people exist, that is all....

 —Oscar Wilde

 Life is what happens while we’re busy making other plans....	— John
Lennon

 The longer I live the more beautiful life becomes....	— Frank L.
Wright

 Life resembles the Olympic games; a few men strain their muscles to
carry off the prize; others bring trinkets to sell to the crowd for a
profit; and some there are who seek no further advantage than to look at
the show and see how and why everything is done....

 —Michel Montaigne

 Life is like stepping on a boat which is about to set sail and sink....

 —Suzuki Roshi

 Life demands from you only the strength you possess....

 —Dag Hammarskjold

 There is more to life than increasing its speed....	— Mohandas Gandhi

 No man enjoys the true taste of life but he who is ready and willing to
quit it....

 —Seneca

 Life is a long preparation for something that never happens.... 
—William B. Yeats

 Life is not truly Life while the thought of death can still disturb
it....

 —Karlfried G. Durckheim

 The art of living is not in eliminating but in growing with
troubles....

 —Bernard M. Baruch

 The purpose of life is like a horizon; the further one advances, the
farther it recedes....	— Hazrat Inayat Khan

 Whittled down to a few words, Life can be summed up in the following:
Love God, trust God—serve Life, trust Life....

 —Henry T. Hamblin

 Every man’s life is a fairy tale, written by God’s fingers....

 —Hans Christian Andersen

 The play is enlivened by the presence of trouble-makers. They are
necessary to lend zest to the play—there is no fun without them....
— Ramakrishna

 Real life is, to most men, a long second- best, a perpetual compromise
between the ideal and the possible....

 —Bertrand Russell

 All life is an experiment. The more experiments you make the better....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 Life is either a daring adventure or nothing. Security does not exist
in nature, nor do the children of men as a whole experience it. Avoiding
danger is no safer in the long run than exposure....	— Helen Keller

 Life is really simple, but men insist on making it complicated....

 —Confucius

 Life would be dull and colorless but for the obstacles that we have to
overcome and the fights we have to win....

 —Jawaharlal Nehru

 The great victories of life are oftenest won in a quiet way, and not
with alarms and trumpets....

 —Benjamin Cardozo

 Life is learning which rules to obey, which rules not to obey, and the
wisdom to tell the difference between the two....	— Anonymous

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   	‘ iS ps>

 There are two ways to slice easilythrough life: to believe everything
or todoubt everything. Both ways save usfrom thinking....	— Alfred
Korzybshi

 Whether you think life is worth livingor not, you will have to live it.
There’sno escape, no oblivion around thecorner....Life must be lived,
but ofcourse you can decide on what levelyou will live it. That is, if
you knowenough and are prepared to make theright effort....	— J. B.
Priestley

 Life goes on—never the same—butonward, spiraling, expanding,
andgrowing—always an adventure....

 —Margaret Pounders

 Life was never meant to be a struggle;just a gentle progression from
onepoint to another, much like walkingthrough a valley on a sunny
day....

 —Stuart Wilde

 It’s a funny thing about life; if yourefuse to accept anything but
the best,you very often get it....

 —Somerset Maugham

 Life can only be understood backwards.

 It must be lived forwards....

 —Soren Kierkegaard

 The purpose of life is a life of pur-pose....	— Robert Byrne

 One person who has mastered life isbetter than a thousand persons
whohave mastered only the contents ofbooks, but no one can get anything
outof life without God....

 —Meister Eckhart

 Individual existence is a rope whichstretches from the infinite to the
finiteand has no end and no commencement,neither is it capable of being
broken....

 —Mabel Collins

 Life holds no mystery. From the very beginning, as man of today
understands the beginning, life has been complete. There is nothing man
can add to life, but there is much for man to enjoy....	 —Frater Achad

 If there is a sin against life, it consists perhaps not so much in
despairing of life as in hoping for another life and in eluding the
implacable grandeur of this life....	— Albert Camus

 To be where we are, and to become what we are capable of becoming, is
the only end in life....

 —Robert L. Stevenson

 Life is not something to be lived through: it is something to be lived
up to. It is a privilege, not a penal servitude of so many decades on
earth....	— William G. Jordan

 Age and youth look upon life from the opposite ends of a telescope; to
the one it is exceedingly long, to the other exceedingly short....

 —Henry W. Beecher

 The whole world is a comedy to those that think, a tragedy to those
that feel....

 —Horace Walpole

 Life is a quarry, out of which we are to mold and chisel and complete a
character....	— Johann W. Goethe

 If you harvest the strength to impose your own terms upon life, you
must accept the terms it offers you....

 — T. S. Eliot

 There must be more to life than having everything....	— Maurice
Sendak

 Life is an error-making and error- correcting process....	— Jonas
Salk

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Life 	♦?	 2

 One of the most tragic things....about human nature is that all of us
tend to put off living. We are dreaming of some magical rose garden over
the horizon— instead of enjoying the roses that are blooming outside
our windows today....

 —Dale Carnegie

 We do not understand that life, before all definitions of it, is a
drama of the visible and the invisible....

 —Maurice Nicoll

 To live is to know what counts in your life....	— Martin Grey

 Accept every event in your life as natural, whether it is life, death,
birth, marriage, goings or comings. Accept everyone. Do not argue. Do
not question. Do not doubt. Do not judge. You will find that each step
will lead on to another one, and when you start living this way there
will be a great rejoicing in the heavens because a prodigal son or
daughter is beginning to return home....	— Ronald Beesley

 The end of life is to be like God....

 —Socrates

 Life is neither a good or an evil; it is simply a place where good and
evil exist....	— Seneca

 Life has no boundaries....

 —Ben Weininger

 Learn this great secret of life: What people call interruption or
disturbance to their routine is just as much a part of living as the
routine. To split life into two parts, one called routine and the other
called interruption, is to be caught between them....

 —Vernon Howard

 The principal business of life is to enjoy it....	— Samuel Butler

 7  ♦?	 Life

 The greatest abundance is gained by not falling into the whirlpool of
life....

 —Lakshmana

 The mystery of life is not a problem to be solved, it is a reality to
be lived....

 —Van der Leeu w

 The chess board is the world, the pieces the phenomena of the universe,
the rules of the game are what we call the laws of Nature. The player on
the other side is hidden from us. We know that his play is always fair,
just and patient. But also we know, to our cost, that he never overlooks
a mistake, or makes the smallest allowance for ignorance....

 -—Thomas H. Huxley

 I count all that part of my life lost which I spend not in communion
with God, or in doing good....

 —John Donne

 Life resembles the banquet of Damocles; the sword is ever suspended....

 —Voltaire

 Your living is determined not so much by what life brings to you as by
the attitude you bring to life; not so much by what happens to you as by
the way your mind looks at what happens....

 —John H. Miller

 The great tragedy of life is that man demands a return or reward for
all that he does, either in money, or praise....

 —Henry T. Hamblin

 Life wants to give us the best, but you must make application for it,
you must work for it in the unseen....

 —Anonymous

 Life is a series of tests, but if you pass your tests you’ll look
back upon them as a good experience....

 —Peace Pilgrim

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065    Life 

 Life begins for anyone when thatindividual refuses to be a victim of
anydelimiting experience: disease, acci-dent, poverty, family pressure,
mar-riage dilemma, neglect. Whatever thecurse, if you will not take it,
or acceptthe role fate seems to offer, you cannever become a mental
cripple andnothing can hold you back....

 —David Seabury

 Life is like a library owned by an author. In it are a few books which
he wrote himself, but most of them were written for him....	— Harry E.
Fosdick

 &

  Light 

 A

  candle never loses anythingwhen it lights another candle....

 —Anonymous

 To keep a lamp burning we have tokeep putting oil into it....

 —Mother Teresa

 Dwelling in the light, there is no

 occasion at all for stumbling, for allthings are discovered in the
light....

 —George Fox

 Experience is a dim light, which onlylights the one who bears it....

 — Louis-Ferdinand Celine

 A man who moves with the earth willnecessarily experience days and
nights.He who stays with the sun will knowno darkness....	—
Nisargadatta

 If you enter a dark place with a lamp,light falls on everyone who is
near you.You don’t have to tell people, “I have alight” because
they will all be aware of

 its presence.... — Annamalai Swami

  Light 

 In the light there are no secret things.The sun reveals all hidden
truths.There are no mysteries in God....

 —The Aquarian Gospel

 The greater the darkness, the morepower the light has by contrast. If
youlight a candle in a totally darkenedroom, the candle has an
almostshattering effect upon the darkness....

 —Ron Watson

 A  man may wreck himself utterly inself-pleasure—may debase his
wholenature, as it seems—yet he fails ofbecoming the perfect devil,
for there isstill the spark of divine light withinhim....	— Mabel
Collins

 There is no darkness if you face thesun....	— Amar Jyoti

 Truly, it is in darkness that one findsthe light, so when we are in
sorrow,then this light is nearest to all of us....

 —Meister Eckhart

 God’s body is Light....

 —Zarathustra

 Woe to the man who seeks to shed a brilliant light in a place where
people want to keep in darkness and shadow....

 —Benedetto Croce

 You must not think of the light of the sun as the true Light of God. It
is a reflection of the true Light. That other Light, that we can neither
know nor comprehend, is so subtle, so highly potent that, for us, and
even for many creatures of the spirit world who are far more advanced
than we, it is darkness....	— Omraam M. Aivanhov

 There are two ways of spreading light: to be the candle or the mirror
that reflects it....	— Edith Wharton

 ♦?  298 *

 ■?av	

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Light

 Light is the symbol of truth....

 —James Russell Lowell

 You can visualize God’s light each day and send it to someone who
needs help. Your divine nature must reach out and touch the divine
nature of another. Within you is the light of the world, it must be
shared with the world....	— Peace Pilgrim

 Keep your face to the sunshine and you cannot see the shadow....

 —Helen Keller

 The sun is always shining. Even though clouds may come along and
obscure the sun for a while, the sun is always shining. The sun never
stops shining. And even though the earth turns, and the sun appears to
go down, it really never stops shining....  —Louise L.Hay

 In order to cause a shadow to disappear you must shine a light upon
it....

 —Anonymous

 I am like the man in Plato’s Allegory of the Cave who knew that his
chief task was to turn the prisoners round so that they could face in
the direction of the sun. The sun would do the rest....

 —Charles Bennett

 Do you not seek a light, ye who are surrounded in darkness....

 —Dhammapada

 A sensible man would remember that the eyes may be confused in two
ways, and for two reasons—by a change from light to darkness, or from
darkness to light. He will consider that the same will happen with the
soul....	— Plato

 What is meant by light? To gaze with undimmed eyes on all darkness....

 —Nikos Kazantzakis

 299 *	Light

 ‘Sp?	

 The light of truth gives particularoffense to certain peoples who
areaccustomed to darkness. Offering themlight is like introducing a ray
ofsunshine into a nest of owls: it onlyserves to hurt their eyes and
makethem squawk....	— Denis Diderot

 Lead me from the unreal to the real!Lead me from darkness to light....

 —The Upanishads

 It is better to light one small candlethan to curse the darkness....

 —Confucius

 They who have light in themselves willnot revolve as satellites.... —
Seneca

 Suppose a neighbor should desire tolight a candle at your fire, would
itdeprive your flame of light, becauseanother profits by it?...	—
Robert Lloyd

 Light and darkness cannot exist at thesame time. When you bring in
light,darkness must fly; no matter whatdarkness it is, it must fly. So
that is thepower of light....	— Chidananda

 In the light there are no mysteries, nohidden things, everything is
revealed;only in darkness are things concealed....

 —Anonymous

 There is no object so foul that intenselight will not make it
beautiful....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 A  cave that has been dark a thousandyears is illuminated the instant a
lampis lit....	— Sevakram

 Give light and the darkness willdisappear of itself....	— Erasmus

 When you think everything is hopeless,a little ray of light comes
fromsomewhere....	— German proverb

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065    Light 

 There is not enough darkness in all the world to put out the light of
even one small candle....	— Robert Alden

 The secret of the sun’s splendor and the star’s glory is in the
ability to scatter light. The true secret of man’s real helpful
influence is when he can scatter sunlight by day and starlight by
night....	— Fred Van Amburgh

 A  light for one is a light for a hundred....	— The Talmud

 The spiritual world is one single spirit who stands like unto a light
behind the bodily world and who, when any single creature comes into
being, shines through it as through a window. According to the size and
kind of the window, less or more light enters the world....	—
AzizNasafi

 Let the light penetrate the darkness until the darkness shines and
there is no longer any division between the two....	— Hebrew proverb

 As far as we can discern, the sole purpose of human existence is to
kindle a light in the darkness of mere being....	— Carl Jung

 He who is worshiped as Light Inaccessible is not light that is
material, the opposite of which is darkness, but light absolutely simple
and infinite in which darkness is infinite light....

 —Nicholas of Cusa

 It isn’t more light we need, it’s putting into practice what light
we already have....	— Peace Pilgrim

 Only the light which we have kindled in ourselves can illuminate
others....

 —Arthur Schopenhauer

 It takes only a little light to dispel much darkness....	— Anonymous

  Little 

 The light of a candle is useful when it precedes you; it is useless
when it trails behind....	— Bahya Ben Asher

 Light, even though it passes through pollution, is not polluted....

 —Augustine

  Little 

 L

 ife is made up not of great sacri-fices or duties, but of little
things,

 in which smiles, and kindnesses, andsmall obligations, given habitually
arewhat win and preserve the heart andsecure comfort....	— Humphry
Davy

 Little drops of water, little grains of sand, make the mighty ocean and
the pleasant land....

 —Julia A. Fletcher Carney

 We ourselves feel that what we are doing is just a drop in the ocean.
But if that drop was not in the ocean, I think the ocean would be less
because of that missing drop. I do not agree with the big way of doing
things....

 —Mother Teresa

 The hardest thing you have to do: The mundane, the routine, the
unrecognized tasks of life....	— Judith Sills

 The happiness of life is made up of minute fractions—the little
soon-forgotten charities of a kiss or a smile, a kind look, a heartfelt
compliment and the countless infinitesimals of pleasurable and genial
feeling....

 —Samuel T. Coleridge

 Practice yourself, for heaven’s sake, in little things; and thence
proceed to greater....	— Epictetus

 ♦?  300  ♦?

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Little

The power of little things to give
instruction and happiness should be the first lesson in life, and it
should be inoculated deeply....

 -—Russell H. Conwell

 Blessed is the man who can enjoy the small things, the common beauties,
the little day-by-day events; sunshine on the fields, birds on the
bough, breakfast, dinner, supper, the daily paper on the porch, a friend
passing by. So many people who go afield for enjoyment leave it behind
them at home....	— David Grayson

 Little things are infinitely more important....	— Arthur C. Doyle

 It is by studying little things that we attain the great art of having
as little misery and as much happiness as possible....	— Samuel
Johnson

 Most of the critical things in life, which become the starting points
of human destiny, are little things....

 —Robert Smith

 Who despises small things shall become poor....	— Apocrypha: Ben Sira

 Small deeds done are better than great deeds planned....  —Peter
Marshall

 Too often we underestimate the power of a touch, a smile, a kind word,
a listening ear, an honest compliment, or the smallest act of caring,
all of which has the potential to turn a life around....

 —Leo Buscaglia

 Little self-denials, little honesties, little passing words of
sympathy, little nameless acts of kindness, little silent victories over
favorite temptations— these are the silent threads of gold which, when
woven together, gleam out so brightly in the pattern of life that God
approves....	— Frederic W. Farrar

 Drop by drop, the measure is filled....

 —Old Testament

 Has the thought ever struck your intellectual roundhouse that life is
made up of little things—that quiet people who are always doing the
little things often accomplish the most....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 Blessed are the unimportant, as much as the important....

 —Saul Chemihovsky

 Rule number one: Don’t sweat the small stuff. Rule number two: It is
all small stuff....	— Robert Elliot

 The things that count most in life are usually the little things that
cannot be counted....	— Bernard Meltzer

 Good things, when short, are twice as good....	— Baltazar Gracian

 Learn the great art of being small....

 —Joseph Brennen

 Little things are indeed little, but to be faithful in little things is
a great thing....

 —Augustine

 The first springs of great events, like those of great rivers, are
often mean and little....	— Jonathan Swift

 Big doesn’t necessarily mean better. Sunflowers aren’t better than
violets....

 —Edna Ferber

 Trifles make perfection....

 —Michelangelo

 Little things affect little minds....

 —Benjamin Disraeli

 What lies behind us and what lies before us are tiny matters compared
to what lies within us....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Little	*	302	*	Loneliness

 	  ispc		

 It is the greatest of all mistakes to do nothing because you can only
do little. Do what you can....	— Sydney Smith

 Little by little does the trick....

 —Aesop

 Sometimes when I consider what tremendous consequences come from little
things....I am tempted to think there are no little things....

 —Bruce Barton

 The beginnings of all things are small....

 —Cicero

 A man who cannot tolerate small ills can never accomplish great
things....

 —Chinese proverb

 Most people would succeed in small things if they were not troubled by
great ambitions....

 —Henry W. Longfellow

 We shut our eyes to the beginnings of evil because they are small, and
in this weakness lies the germ of our defeat....

 —Henri F. Amiel

 The Godly nature does not need to be sated with trivial items and petty
praises. Already it contains whatever is needed to sustain itself....

 —Shantidasa

 You have to begin with little things, and when you have proved God in
small experiences, and God has proven you, you will be ready to launch
out in larger ventures of faith....

 —Henry T. Hamblin

 The spirit of delight comes in small ways....	— Robert L. Stevenson

 The importance of little things. This is true but so also is the
unimportance of great things—sooner or later....

 —Samuel Butler

 When one understands that the great things of the world and of life
consist of a combination of small things, and that without this
aggregation of small things the great things would be nonexistent, then
he begins to pay careful attention to those things which he formerly
regarded as insignificant....

 —James Allen

 Trivial words or gestures are apt to reveal an individual far more than
his studied poses and utterances....

 —Jawaharlal Nehru

 A  multitude of small delights constitutes happiness....

 —Charles Baudelaire

 &

  Loneliness 

 T

 he person who tries to live alonewill not succeed as a human

 being. His heart withers if he doesn’tanswer another heart. His
mindshrinks away if he hears only theechoes of his own thoughts and
findsno other inspiration....  —Pearl Buck

 Man’s loneliness is but his fear of life....

 —Eugene O’Neill

 Man is never alone....His existence and feelings are individual and
collective at one and same time....	— Eliphas Levi

 When you live in constant communion with God, you cannot be lonely....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 Loneliness and feelings of being unwanted is the most terrible
poverty....	-— Mother Teresa

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Loneliness	*	3

 The hardest thing for a person to bear is not a dressing-down or
beating, but loneliness, ostracism....	— RuZhijuan

 What loneliness is more lonely than distrust?...	— George Eliot

 The deepest need of man is the need to overcome his separateness, to
leave the prison of his aloneness....

 -—Erich Fromm

 We not only have to die alone; we also, save for a few close
associates, have to live alone....	— Henry L. Mencken

 In cities, no one is quiet but many are lonely; in the country, people
are quiet but few are lonely....

 —Geoffrey F. Fisher

 Are you lonely, O my brother? Share your little hand with another!
Stretch your hand to one unfriended and your loneliness is ended....

 —John Oxenham

 Leave the public roads, and walk in unfrequented paths....	—
Pythagoras

 We all have to cross the stream alone....

 —Bhai Sahib

 Being alone is a markedly different experience than being lonely....

 —Clark E. Moustakas

 The worst loneliness is not to be comfortable with yourself....

 —Mark Twain

 There is no loneliness if one is satisfied with oneself.... —
Hans-Ulrich Rieker

 There is none more lonely than the man who loves only himself....

 —Abraham Ibn Esra

 3 *	Love

 Loneliness is the desire for someone; being alone is contentment....

 —Tom Seeley

 Loneliness is the way by which destiny endeavors to lead man to
himself....

 —Hermann Hesse

 The eternal quest of the individual human being is to shatter his
loneliness....	— Norman Cousins

 Loneliness vanishes completely in the Stillness....	— PaulBrunton

 Loneliness can only truly be conquered by those who appreciate
solitude....

 —Anonymous

 Never fear being alone, because you never are....	— Rod McKuen

 Seldom can a heart be lonely, if one seeks one lonelier still....

 —Francis R. Havergal

 There is no loneliness like the loneliness of a great crowd....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 People who cannot bear to be alone are generally the worst company....

 —Albert Guidon

 There is only one thing that all people possess equally. This is their
loneliness....	— Hyemeyohsts Storm

 &

  Love 

 T

 he salvation of man is throughlove and in love....

 —Victor Frankl

 Love is the great solvent of all difficulties, all problems, all
misunderstandings....	— White Eagle

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Love

 The path of love and the path of insightlead into the same garden....

 —Stephen Mitchell

 Tell me who you love, and I’ll tell youwho you are....	— Creole
proverb

 Ordinary love based on the physicalaffinity is a source of misery both
to thelover and the loved. But Divine Lovebased on the feeling of
spiritualoneness is sublime. It is a source ofpure bliss. Here you love
another notbecause he is a relation of yours, butbecause you and he are
one in Spirit....

 —Papa Ramdas

 Love is greater than faith, because theend is greater than the
means....(Love)is greater than charity, again, becausethe whole is
greater than the part....

 —Henry Drummond

 The passion we call love is the mis-guided belief that one person
issomehow different from anotherperson....	— Anonymous

 The absence of love in our lives is whatmakes them seem raw and
un-finished....	— Ingrid Bengis

 A  crowd is not company, faces are but agallery of pictures and talk
but atinkling of cymbals where there is nolove....	— Francis Bacon

 To love is to place our happiness in thehappiness of another....

 —Gottfried Leibnitz

 Love is the end of the struggle. Whenyou have got love, your
struggleceases....	— Papa Ramdas

 Only the loving ones find love and they

 never have to reach for it....

 —Sunyata

  Love 

 As long as we see our fellow men as merely human, we shall be doomed to
disappointment and disillusionment. It is only when we glimpse
potentialities of the divine beneath the weakness of the flesh that we
truly love....

 —Alice H. Rice

 When we love, we see the infinite in the finite. We find the Creator in
the creation....True love is a dazzling revelation of the immortality of
the soul....	— Eliphas Levi

 The nearest way to God leads through love’s open door....

 —Angelus Silesius

 If love does not know how to give and take without restrictions, it is
not love, but a transaction that never fails to lay stress on a plus and
a minus....

 -—Emma Goldman

 Love of body or skin is passion. Love of God is....devotion. It is pure
love. It is love for love’s sake. It is divine....

 —Sivananda

 Love grows by service....

 —Charlotte P. Gilman

 That’s all non-violence is—organized love....	— Joan Baez

 We are not made to love only one or two individuals. We have the
immense capacity to be in love with everyone....

 —Eknath Easwaran

 When we love, we lose ourselves, and conversely when we have lost our-
selves....we become capable of inexhaustible love....	— Stephen Larsen

 The only way you can ever hope to be loved is to stop asking for it and
start giving it; you get love only when you give it to others.... —
Dale Carnegie

 ♦?  304 *

 ‘Xf'f  	

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Try to radiate your love equally to
all people instead of just a few. Try to feel that the whole world is
your Self, your God. Try to see the Self in all people. Spread your love
in all directions as an act of worship and surrender, because everything
in the world is a manifestation of God....	— Annamalai Swami

 Infantile love follows the principle: I love because I am loved. Mature
love follows the principle: I am loved because I love....	— Erich
Fromm

 Love is strong as death....Many waters cannot quench love, neither can
the floods drown it....	— Old Testament

 He who loves another tries truly to understand the other....

 —Harry  A  Overstreet

 They do not love who do not show their love....	— William Shakespeare

 The remedy of all blunders, the cure of blindness, the cure of crime,
is love....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 Only love can be divided endlessly and still not diminish....

 —Anne Morrow Lindbergh

 To live without loving is not really to live....	— Jean B. Moliere

 If only you could love enough you would be the happiest and most
powerful being in the world....

 —Emmet Fox

 When we come to the last moment of this lifetime, and we look back
across it, the only thing that’s going to matter is “What was the
quality of our love?”...

 —Richard Bach

 There is no right or wrong. There is only love....	— Carol Chapman

 Love and compassion are necessities, not luxuries. Without them
humanity cannot survive....	— Dalai Lama

 There is a love like a small lamp, which goes out when the oil is
consumed; or like a stream which dries up when it doesn’t rain. But
there is a love like a mighty spring gushing up out of the earth; it
keeps flowing forever, and is inexhaustible.... — Isaac ofNinveveh

 The conclusion is always the same: love is the most powerful and still
the most unknown energy of the world....

 —Teilhard de Chardin

 Love knows no pain....

 —Meister Eckhart

 If you love one person more than another this is not true love; it is
an attachment created by desire. To love all things equally....is true
love....

 —Saradamma

 The path of love is rugged, thorny and precipitous. It is a razor
path....It can only admit one....	— Sivananda

 It is possible that a man can be so changed by love as hardly to be
recognized as the same person....

 —Terence

 Take away love and our earth is a tomb....	— Robert Browning

 Don’t fall into the trap that there is only one special person that
you are able to love. Instead, try to develop the expectation that the
world is full of people that you can love and that can love you....	—
Ken Keyes, Jr.

 Love is the power of God that binds two souls and makes them one; there
is no power on earth that can dissolve that bond....	— The Aquarian
Gospel

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Love 	♦?	 3

 To love means never to be afraid of the windstorms of life....

 —Elisabeth Kubler-Ross

 When the satisfaction or the security of another person becomes as
significant to one as one’s own satisfaction or security, then the
state of love exists....

 —Harry S. Sullivan

 In real love you want the other person’s good. In romantic love you
want the other person....	— Margaret Anderson

 The more we forget ourselves in giving to others, the better we can
understand what love really means....

 — Donald Walters

 Love has no errors, for all errors are the want of love....	— William
Law

 A genuine caring love is like a tree that is mature. It does not get
uprooted by every passing wind of feeling or change. It develops with
time a strong root structure. It sends out sturdy branches. It can
survive dry spells....

 —Larry Christenson

 No human love affair can substitute for the divine one....	— Gerald
G. May

 To be able to say how much you love is to love but little....	—
Petrarch

 Love is but the discovery of ourselves in others, and the delight in
the recognition....	— Alexander Smith

 Love does not survive neglect. Once planted, it must be carefully
tended if it is to grow....	— Alice H. Rice

 Love is the free exercise of choice. Two people love each other only
when they are quite capable of living without each other but choose to
live with each other....	— M. Scott Peck

 6   ♦? 	 Love

 Love, the magician, knows this little trick whereby two people walk in
different directions yet always remain side by side....	— Hugh Prather

 Love is an incurable disease. No one who catches it wants to recover,
and all its victims refuse a cure.... — Ibn Hazim

 It’s not unusual for love to remain a lifetime. It’s passion that
doesn’t last....

 —Tom Robbins

 Falling in love is exhilaration about the future....	— Robert C.
Solomon

 When you are in love with someone, you do indeed see them as divine....

 —Alan Watts

 Perfect love means to love the one through whom one becomes happy....

 —Soren Kierkegaard

 Love....like a lively flame and burning torch forces its way upwards
and securely passes through all things....

 —Thomas a Kempis

 Love is the expression of an ancient need, that human desire was
originally one and whole and the desire and the pursuit of the whole is
called love....

 —Aristophanes

 Love is a medicine for the sickness of the world; a prescription often
given, too rarely taken....

 —Karl A. Menninger

 Love means to commit oneself without guarantee, to give oneself
completely in the hope that our love will produce love in the loved
person. Love is an act of faith, and whoever is of little faith is of
little love....	— Erich Fromm

 Love is a product of habit....

 —Lucretius

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065    Love 

 When love comes, reason flees hastily away....	— Ferid Ed-dim Attar

 The first step to unselfish love is the recognition that our love may
be deluded. We must first of all purify our love by renouncing the
pleasure of loving as an end in itself....

 —Thomas Merton

 There is no path greater than love. There is no law higher than love.
And there is no goal beyond love. God and love are identical....

 —Meher Baba

 You want to be loved because you do not love; but the moment you love,
it is finished, you are no longer inquiring whether or not somebody
loves you....

 — J. Krishnamurti

 To love is to return to a home we never left, to remember who we
are....

 —Sam Keen

 Love is the energizing elixir of the universe, the cause and effect of
all harmonies....	— Rumi

 We are shaped and fashioned by what we love....	 —Johann W. Goethe

 Born at the banquet of the gods, Love has of necessity been eternally
in existence, for it springs from the intention of the Soul towards its
best, towards the Good; and as long as the Soul has been—Love has
been....

 —Plotinus

 Instead of allowing yourself to be unhappy, just let your love grow as
God wants it to grow. Seek goodness in others. Love more persons more.
Love them more impersonally, more unselfishly, without thought of
return. The return, never fear, will take care of itself....	— Henry
Drummond

  Love 

 Pure love is a willingness to give,without a thought of
receivinganything back in return....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 It is love which binds the universetogether and sustains it. Without
love itwould be nothing more than acollection of inert matter....

 —Saradamma

 The more one loves the nearer heapproaches to God, for God is the
spiritof infinite love....

 -—Ralph W. Trine

 All things work together for good tothem that love God....	— Paul of
Tarsus

 He who loves brings God and the worldtogether....	— Martin Buber

 Love one human being purely andwarmly, and you will love all....

 —Jean Paul Richter

 Love gives; love never withdraws. Lovewarms and frees the will of man,
so hemay receive his own inheritance andmake his own decisions....

 —Elsie Morgan

 Love cures. It cures those who give itand it cures those who receive
it....

 —Karl A. Menninger

 The only genuine love worthy of thename is unconditional....

 —John Powell

 As a mother even at the risk of her ownlife protects her only son, so
let a mancultivate goodwill without measureamong all beings. Let him
suffuse thewhole world with thoughts of love,unmixed with any sense of
differenceor opposed interests....

 —Gautama Buddha

 ♦?  307  ♦?

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   	 ‘spp

 Every part of our personality that wedo not love will become hostile to
us....

 —Robert Bly

 To heal is to touch with love that whichwe previously touched with
fear....

 —Stephen Levine

 Love is a mysterious divine glue thatunites the hearts of all....

 —Sivananda

 Love makes every space sacred andevery moment meaningful....

 —Barbara De Angelis

 Immature love says, “I love youbecause you love me.” Mature
lovesays,”I love you whether you love meor not.”...	— Shantidasa

 If you can justify everything thateveryone in the universe does and
findno fault with anyone; see good ineverything and everyone-that is
trulyexpressing LOVE....	 —James B. Schafer

 Without love one lacks the warmth andemotions which create life, youth
andbeauty. He is like a stagnant pondcompared with a flowing,
babbling,laughing brook. He depresses the lifeforce in those around him
instead ofradiating sunshine to all who comenear him....	— LeonDeSeblo

 We don’t love qualities, we lovepersons, sometimes by reason of
theirdefects as well as their qualities....

 —Jacques Maritain

 While I don’t ask you to save the world,

 I do ask you to love those with whomyou sleep, share the happiness of
thoseyou call friend, engage those among

 you who are visionary, and removefrom your life those who offer
youdespair and disrespect....

 —Nikki Giovanni

 Love is not selective, desire is selective;with love there are no
strangers....

 —Anonymous

 All true love is grounded on esteem....

 —George Buckinghain

 One word frees us of all the weight andpain of life: that word is
love....

 —Sophocles

 There can be no excess to love....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 When love and skill work together,expect a masterpiece....	— John
Ruskin

 Love in the making sees faults, butforgives them. Love in its
grandfulfillment never sees any faults; henceit has nothing to
forgive....

 —Papa Ramdas

 Love should be as natural as living andbreathing....	— Mother Teresa

 No disguise can long conceal lovewhere it is, nor feign it where it
isnot....	— Francois La Rochefoucauld

 Love consists in this, that two solitudesprotect and touch and greet
eachother....	— Rainer M. Rilke

 Love cannot stay at home; a mancannot keep it to himself. Like light,
itis constantly traveling. A man mustspend it, must give it away....

 —Alexander Macleod

 Love cannot endure indifference. It needs to be wanted. Like a lamp, it
needs to be fed out of the oil of another’s heart, or its flame burns
low....	— Henry W. Beecher

 Love doesn’t make the world go ’round. Love is what makes the ride
worthwhile....	— Franklin P. Jones

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Love

 The most important word that’s ever been invented is the word
love....

 —Gary Busey

 Love is never lost. If not reciprocated it will flow back and soften
and purify the heart....	— Washington Irving

 Man’s love of God is identical with his knowledge of Him....

 —Maimonides

 Love makes burdens lighter, because you divide them. It makes joys more
intense, because you share them. It makes you stronger, so that you can
reach out and become involved with life in ways you dared not risk
alone....

 —Arthur Gordon

 Love conquers all things; let us surrender to love....	— Virgil

 Love is the nature of God, He can do no other: Thus, to be God, love at
each moment....	— Angelus Silesius

 Reality is not clearly and immediately apprehended, except by those who
have made themselves loving, pure in heart and poor in spirit....

 —Aldous Huxley

 People who do not experience self-love have little or no capacity to
love others....	— Nathaniel Branden

 Love is space and time measured by the heart....	— Marcel Proust

 At the center of non-violence stands the principle of love....

 —Martin L. King, Jr.

 To love for the sake of being loved is human, but to love for the sake
of loving is angelic....

 —Alphonse de Lamartine

 Love

 Love is an act of endless forgiveness....

 —Peter Ustinov

 Love is when each person is moreconcerned for the other than for
one’sself....	— David Frost

 God is love, and he that has learnt tolive in the Spirit of love has
learnt tolive and dwell in God....

 —William Law

 If you would be loved, love and belovable....	— Benjamin Franklin

 Love is the strongest force the worldpossesses, and yet it is the
humblestimaginable....	— Mohandas Gandhi

 Love can be its own reward....

 —Arnold Lobel

 Put love into the world and heavenwith all its beauties and
gloriesbecomes a reality. Not to love is not tolive, or to live a living
death. The lifethat goes out in love to all is the lifethat is full, and
rich, and continuallyexpanding in beauty and in power....

 —Ralph W. Trine

 In love, respect should come first andardor second....	— Robert
Benson

 Love is patient and kind; love is notjealous or conceited or proud;
love isnot ill-mannered, or selfish or irritable;love does not keep a
record of wrongs.Love is not happy with evil, but ishappy with the
truth. Love never givesup: its faith, hope and patience neverfail. Love
is eternal....	— Paul of Tarsus

 Love, and do what thou wilt....

 —Augustine

 Love turns one person into two; and two into one....	— Isaac
Abravanel

 ♦?  309 *

  -spr

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Love	*	3

 Bitterness imprisons life; love releases it. Bitterness paralyzes life;
love empowers it. Bitterness sours life; love sweetens it. Bitterness
sickens life; love heals it. Bitterness blinds life; love anoints its
eyes.... — Harry E. Fosdick

 Love knows no rule....

 — St. Jerome

 Love requires no defense and bears no need to prove itself. It knows
that it is lovable, and all that comes from love must be lovable,
too....	— Alan Cohen

 Happiness comes more from loving than being loved.... — J. E.
Buckrose

 To love is the most important thing in life. But what do we mean by
love? When you love someone because that person loves you in return
surely that is not love. To love is to have that extraordinary feeling
of affection without asking anything in return....

 — J. Krishnamurti

 Love brings to life whatever is dead around us....	— Franz Rosenzweig

 Love does not make you weak because it is the source of all strength,
but it makes you see the nothingness of the illusionary strength on
which you depended before you knew it....

 —Leon Bloy

 We love because it’s the only true adventure....	— Nikki Giovanni

 Love doesn’t just sit there, like a stone; it has to be made, like
bread, remade all the time, made new....

 —Ursula K. LeGuin

 Let us love each other more, and we shall have a feeling of
spaciousness....

 —Raphael of Bershad

 0  ♦?	 Love

 ?  	

 A man or a woman will fall in love with

 you because of the way they feel about

 themselves when they are with you....

 —Ellen Kreidman

 True love will always commit itself and engage in lasting ties; it
needs freedom only to effect its choice, not for its accomplishment....
— Carl Jung

 Love rules without rules....

 —Italian saying

 Among those who dwell in that world above there is no disagreement; all
have one purpose; there is one mind, one feeling in them all; for the
spell which binds them one to another is Love....	— Hermes

 Love is the holy bond that holds all worlds together....

 —Julian P. Johnson

 If we seek to be loved—if we expect to be loved—this cannot be
accomplished; we will be dependent and grasping, not genuinely
loving....	— M. Scott Peck

 Respect is love in plain clothes....

 —Frankie Byrne

 He who knows nothing loves nothing. He who can do nothing understands
nothing. He who understands nothing is worthless. But he who understands
also loves, notices, sees.... — Paracelsus

 A  mind might ponder its thoughts for ages and not gain so much
self-knowledge as the passion of love shall teach in a day....	 —Ralph
W. Emerson

 Absence is to love what wind is to fire; it puts out the little and
kindles the great....	— Roger de Busy-Rabutin

 In love is found the secret of divine unity....	— The Zohar

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890    Love 

 Every man loves what he is good at....

 —Thomas Shadwell

 A single atom of the love of God in a heart is worth more than a
hundred thousand paradises....

 —Bayazid al-Bistami

 The love we give away is the only love we keep....	— Elbert Hubbard

 Love is clarity....Decisions made from love will bring even greater
clarity....

 —Maya Sarada Devi

 You must expand your love to as wide a circle as possible....	—
Sathya Sai Baba

 A man doesn’t learn to understand anything unless he loves it....

 —Johann W. Goethe

 Love is not bargaining; it is not give and take. It is a spontaneous
merging of souls....	— Papa Ramdas

 True love demands nothing, seeks nothing for its own, but desires only
to give. If we love God and our neighbor we desire only to give, to
serve, to pour out all that we have at the feet of Life....

 —Henry T. Hamblin

 It is only the souls that do not love that go empty in this world....

 —Robert Benson

 Love is union with somebody or something outside oneself, under the
condition of retaining the separateness and integrity of one’s own
self....

 —Erich Fromm

 Teach only Love for that is what you are....	— Gerald Jampolsky

 We love people because they have loving thoughts of us, not because
they are beautiful....	— Robert Collier

 311 *	Love

 There is no difficulty that enough love will not conquer; no disease
that enough love will not heal; no door that enough love will not open;
no gulf that enough love will not bridge; no wall that enough love will
not throw down; no sin that enough love will not redeem....	— Emmet
Fox

 All love is Divine. Let it never be said that physical or romantic love
is less than God’s Love, for ideas cannot be apart from their
source....

 —Alan Cohen

 1 will love you no matter what. I will love you if you are stupid, if
you slip and fall on your face, if you do the wrong thing, if you make
mistakes, if you behave like a human being—I will love you no matter
what....

 -—Leo Buscaglia

 As a human being related to all living beings, we must be first related
to ourselves. We cannot understand, love and welcome others without
first knowing and loving ourselves....

 —Jean Klein

 People think love is an emotion. Love is good sense....	— Ken Kesey

 Start learning to love God by loving those whom you cannot love. The
more you remember others with kindness and generosity, the more you
forget yourself, and when you forget yourself completely, you find
God....

 —Meher Baba

 Above all things, love yourself....

 —Pythagoras

 A  loving person lives in a loving world. A hostile person lives in a
hostile world: everyone you meet is a mirror....

 —Ken Keyes, Jr.

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065    Love 

 That all things are possible to him who believes, that they are less
difficult to him who hopes, that they are easier to him who loves, and
still more easy to him who perseveres in the practice of these three
virtues....

 —Brother Lawrence

 Reason is not what directs love....

 —Jean B. Moliere

 The love in your heart wasn’t put there to stay—Love isn’t love
until it’s given away....	 —Anonymous

 While God awaits for the temple to be built of love, men bring
stones....

 —Rabindranath Tagore

 Love makes all hard hearts gentle....

 —George Herbert

 Someday, after mastering the wind, the waves, and the tides, we shall
harness for God the power of love, and then, for the second time in
history, man will have discovered fire....

 —Teilhard de Chardin

 Sex wants to possess its beloved, even to enslave her. Love is willing
to let her stay free....	 —Paul Brunton

 Love and lust cannot exist at the same time....	 —Tom Seeley

 Those that go searching for love only make manifest their own
lovelessness. And the loveless never find love, only the loving find
love, and they never have to seek for it....	— D.	H. Lawrence

 When the power of love replaces the love of power, man will have a new
name: God....	 —Chinmoy

 Love is our highest word and the synonym for God....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 Love

 For love is victorious in attack, and invulnerable in defense. Heaven
arms with love those who it would not see destroyed....	— Lao-tzu

 To love anyone is nothing else than to wish that person good....

 —Thomas Aquinas

 Love is the biggest eraser there is. Love erases even the deepest
imprinting because love goes deeper than anything....	 —Louise Hayes

 If God is love, the more we can understand the nature of love and put
that understanding into practice, the more God like will be our
experience....

 —Reginald Armor

 Love is not just another attitude. Many people think the opposite of
fear is love. But love is actually what we are. It is a step beyond
attitude. It is a shift in consciousness....	 —Michael Exeter

 Divine Love is distinguished from human love in this supremely
important particular: it is free from partiality....	 —James Allen

 If our hearts go all out in love to all with whom we come in contact,
we inspire love, and the same ennobling and warming influences of love
always return to us....If you would have all the world love you, you
must first love all the world....	 —Ralph W. Trine

 Love is a fruit in season at all times, and within the reach of every
hand....

 —Mother Teresa

 To love is to release God’s storehouse of golden treasure. If we love
we cannot help giving, and to give is to gain, and the law of love is
fulfilled....

 —Baird Spalding

 ♦?  312  ♦?

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Love 	♦?	j

 I am realizing every day that the searchfor truth is vain unless it is
foundedupon love. To injure a single humanbeing is to injure those
divine powerswithin us, and thus the harm reachesnot only that one human
being, butwith him the whole world....

 —Mohandas Gandhi

 The purpose of life is to learn to love—as we evolve we learn to love
and learnto be loved....	— Shirley MacLaine

 He who comes to do good knocks at thegate; he who loves finds the
gateopen....	— Rabindranath Tagore

 Love is not blind. Lust is blind. If love isblind, God is blind.... —
Gordon Palmer

 Love that has nothing but beauty tokeep it in good health, is short
lived....

 —Erasmus

 To love all alike is distinctly a divinequality....	— Papa Ramdas

 Love is the reduction of the universe toa single being....	 —Victor
Hugo

 &

  Meditation 

 e spend a great deal of timetelling God what we think

 should be done, and not enough timewaiting in the stillness for God to
tellus what to do....	— Peace Pilgrim

 Meditation provides a way of learning how to let go. As we sit, the
self we’ve been trying to construct and make into a nice, neat package
continues to unravel....	— John Welwood

 Keeping God in your mind as everything around you becomes
meditation....	— Ramana Maharshi

 3 *	Meditation

 The purpose of meditation practice is not enlightenment; it is to pay
attention even at extraordinary times, to be of the present,
nothing-but-in-the-pre- sent, to bear this mindfulness of now into each
event of ordinary life....

 —Peter Matthiessen

 Meditation is simplicity itself. One is to just let go, nothing special
is supposed to happen....	— A Spiritual Warrior

 Meditation is silence. If you realize that you really know nothing,
then you will be truly meditating. Such truthfulness is the right soil
for silence. Silence is meditation....	— Yoga Swami

 Meditation needs an awake mind not an unconscious one....Meditation is
not something that should be done in a particular position at a
particular time. It is an awareness and an attitude that must persist
throughout the day....

 —Annamalai Swami

 Meditation is not some strange technique that we have to learn with
great effort and difficulty....Whatever we accomplish in this world we
accomplish through the power of concentration, which is nothing but
medita- tion....Above all, meditation stills the wandering mind and
establishes us forever in a state of peace....

 —Muktananda

 This is the only way....to explain existence, to overcome sadness and
grievances, to banish death and misery, to find the right path, to
realize Nirvana—it is correct meditation....

 —Gautama Buddha

 Meditation helps keep us from identifying with the “movies of the
mind.”...	— Joan Borysenko

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Meditation	*	314	*	Meditation

   	

 Spiritual meditation is the pathway to Divinity. It is a mystic ladder
which reaches from earth to heaven, from error to Truth, from pain to
peace. Every saint climbed it; every sinner must sooner or later come to
it....

 —James Allen

 Before embarking on important undertakings, sit quietly, calm your
senses and thoughts, and meditate deeply. You will then be guided by the
great creative power of Spirit....

 —Paramahansa Yogananda

 Meditation is not a means to an end. It is both the means and the
end....

 — J. Krishnamurti

 There is no ill in life that cannot be cured by right
meditation....True meditation gives us, as it were, wings for flight to
a higher realm and thus detaches us from terrestrial fetters....

 —Paramananda

 If you can’t meditate in a boiler room, you can’t meditate....	—
Alan Watts

 Contemplation is to knowledge what digestion is to food—the way to
get life out of it....	— Tryon Edwards

 Meditation is that exercise of the mind by which it recalls a known
truth....

 —George Home

 The mind turned outward results in thoughts and objects. Turned inwards
it becomes itself the Self....

 —Raman a Maharshi

 No great work has been ever produced except after a lone interval of
still and musing meditation....

 —Walter Bagehot

 Contemplation places us in a purity and radiance which is far above our
understanding....	— John Ruysbroeck

 We become contemplatives when God discovers Himself in us....

 —Thomas Merton

 Real meditation is already radical activity. It is understanding....And
when understanding has become observation, reflection, insight, radical
cognition, then the state of consciousness itself is meditation....

 —Da Free John

 Seek in reading and thou shalt find in meditation; knock in prayer and
it shall be opened in contemplation....

 —John of the Cross

 Those who are striving for knowledge will not get very far on the
highway of life unless some time is given to meditation and
contemplation; meditation on the past, that mistakes may not be
repeated—contemplation on the future, that the learning and experience
of today may be profitably applied to tomorrow....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 Meditation applies the brakes to the mind....	— Ramana Maharshi

 Contemplation for an hour is better than formal worship for sixty
years....

 —Mohammed

 Meditation is a valuable exercise, but eventually you have to open up
your eyes and look around....

 —Dan Millman

 Some hours of the day should be set apart for meditation so that the
work in which we would be engaged during the other hours may be done as
a spontaneous and blissful outflow of Eternal Reality dwelling in us....

 -—Papa Ramdas

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Meditation

 ♦?  315

 Meditation

 Meditation is a rich and powerful method of study for anyone who knows
how to examine his mind....the greatest men make it their
occupation....It is the occupation of the Gods....

 —Michel Montaigne

 Arise in the midst of the night and commune with thy God. The ego will
be crushed and things will be revealed to thee thou didst not know
before and thy path in life will be made smooth....

 —Koran

 Through meditation, the Higher Self is seen....	— Bhagavad-Gita

 The practice of reflective meditation, which consists in holding
certain ideas in the mind long enough to enable them to form emotional
connections, tends to break up the crust of habit and to create a new
will....

 —Walter M. Horton

 Contemplation is for man the end of human life....	— St. Thomas

 Stop talking, stop thinking, and there is nothing you will not
understand. Return to the root and you will find Meaning....	—
Seng-ts’an

 Prayer is speaking to God. Meditation is listening. Trust
tranquility....

 —Shirley MacLaine

 In contemplation it is the principle— namely God—which is
sought....

 —Pope St. Gregory I

 Stop thinking that meditation is anything special. Stop thinking
altogether....	— Surya Singer

 There is only one meditation-the rigorous refusal to harbor thoughts.
To be free from thoughts is itself meditation....	— Nisargadatta

 Meditation is simply seeing reality and acknowledging it with bare
honesty. Which means ultimately....we stop relying on every form of
external authority. That’s very revolutionary....

 —Bo Lozoff

 Do you know what one feels in meditation? The mind becomes like a
continuous flow of oil—it thinks one object only, and that is God. It
does not think of anything else....

 —Ramakrishna

 The spirit of meditation is the combating of self-willed thinking—it
is a combat against the weight of one’s feelings....	— Hakuin

 Meditation is not a matter of trying to achieve ecstasy, spiritual
bliss or tranquility, nor is it attempting to be a better person. It is
simply the creation of a space in which we are able to expose and undo
our neurotic games, our self-deceptions, our hidden fears and hopes....
— Chogyam Trungpa

 Whoever is not very humble can never draw profit from contemplation....

 —Teresa of Avila

 What is meditation? It is the suspension of thoughts....	— Ramana
Maharshi

 Words are but the shell; meditation is the kernel....	— Bahya Ibn
Paquda

 The contemplative life is the life that puts thought above action, the
invisible above the visible....	— Cuthbert Hall

 Meditating means bringing the mind back to something again and again.
Thus, we all meditate, but unless we direct it in some way, we meditate
on ourselves and on our own problems, reinforcing our self-clinging....

 —Yeshe Dorje

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Meditation 	 ♦? 	 3

 A meditator keeps his mind open every second. He is constantly
investigating life, investigating his own experience, viewing existence
in a detached and inquisitive way. Thus, he is constantly open to truth
in any form, from any source, and at any time....

 —Henepola Gunartana

 There is no necessity for a technique or formula for meditation. Inner
feeling, or inner knowing, is the Silent Voice of inspiration....

 —Walter Russell

 It were better to live one single day in the pursuit of understanding
and meditation, than to live a hundred years in ignorance and
restraint....

 —Gautama Buddha

 M

  Mind 

 M

 inds, like bodies, will often fallinto a pimpled, ill-conditioned

 state from mere excess of comfort....

 —Charles Dickens

 There is no misery or suffering outside your own mind because the whole
world is nothing but a projection of your mind....	— Annamalai Swami

 I find, by experience, that the mind and the body are more than
married, for they are most intimately united; and when one suffers, the
other sympathizes....	— Philip Chesterfield

 Mind is only thoughts. The more easily you can be without thoughts, the
nearer you are to a direct experience of Self. To make the mind die you
must deprive it of thoughts....

 —Lakshmana

 6 *	Mind

 Mind is nothing tangible upon which you can place your finger, as mind
is not a thing. Mind is a process which the Self (you, as consciousness)
uses to produce thoughts....	— Ormond McGill

 The thoughts within our mind are in our power to control, but few ever
exercise their freedom to control them, and instead are witness to an
endless parade of fantasy, concepts and illusions....	— A Spiritual
Warrior

 The mind is the commander-in-chief and the senses are the armed forces.
Hence, control of the mind is control (or victory) over the senses. If
one’s feet are covered with leather shoes, the entire world is covered
with leather....

 —Yoga Vasistha

 There is only one means to control one’s mind, that is to destroy
thoughts as soon as they arise....

 —The Upanishads

 It’s the nature of the mind to always change its mind....

 —Stephen H. Wolinsky

 The mind is an instrument which can be used by either the self-centered
nature or the divine nature....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 Only the mind is capable of error....

 —A Course In Miracles

 Whenever you jettison false notions from the mind you make room for
reality to enter....	— Anonymous

 Breath is the bridge which connects life to consciousness, which unites
your body to your thoughts. Whenever your mind becomes scattered, use
your breath as a means to take hold of your mind again....	— Thich
Nhat Hanh

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Mind

 317

 -  ‘sps’ -

 Mind

 When your mind stops racing, it is naturally kind instead of rude,
naturally loving instead of selfish....

 —Eknath Easwaran

 The beginning of wisdom is to know the imperfection of one’s own
mind. If a man recognizes its weakness, he will not use it as a means to
answer important questions.... — Epictetus

 The human mind....is incapable of thinking rightly. It thinks from the
point of view of error and limitation, instead of from the point of view
of Truth and limitless power....In order to be free one must reverse his
thoughts, learning to think from the Universal Mind, instead of from the
finite mind....

 —Henry T. Hamblin

 Some minds remain open long enough for the truth not only to enter but
to pass on through by way of a ready exit without pausing anywhere along
the route....	— Elizabeth Kenny

 The average mind is like a pool of water violently agitated by
windstorms: storms of passion, of desires, of duties to be done, of a
hundred demands upon one’s time, of restless hurrying to- and-fro, of
irritations, anxieties, worries, and a thousand other ills of the mind.
Concentration is the cure....

 —Julian P. Johnson

 The chief characteristic of the mind is to be constantly describing
itself....

 —Henri Focillon

 The human mind likes a strange idea as little as the body likes a
strange protein and resists it with a similar energy....

 —IV.  H. Beveridge

 Little minds are interested in the extraordinary; great minds in the
commonplace....	— Elbert Hubbard

 If you give your mind your full, detached attention, you begin to
understand the futility of all mental activities. Watch the mind
wandering here and there, seeking out useless or unnecessary things or
ideas which will ultimately only create misery for itself....

 —Annamalai Swami

 One must first discipline and control one’s own mind. If a man can
control his own mind he will find the way to Enlightenment, and all
wisdom and virtue will naturally come to him....

 —Gautama Buddha

 As  every divided kingdom falls, so every mind divided between many
studies confounds and saps itself....

 —Leonardo da Vinci

 The mind is the mischief-maker. It jumps from doubt to doubt; it puts
obstacles in the way. It weaves a net and gets entangled in it. It is
ever discontented; it runs after a hundred things and away from another
hundred....	— Sathya Sai Baba

 Conquer the mind, and you conquer the world....	— Nanah

 Nothing contributes so much to tranquilize the mind as a steady
purpose....	— Mary Wollstonecraft

 What we call a mind is nothing but a heap or collection of certain
perceptions....	— David Hume

 We should take care not to make the intellect our God....	— Albert
Einstein

 Where there is an open mind, there will always be a frontier....

 —Charles Kettering

 The mind unlearns with difficulty what has long been impressed on
it....

 —Seneca

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Mind	*

 Men allow their minds to become shackled in many ways—by self-pity,
by anxiety, by self-interest, by lust, by greed....	 —Norman  V. 
Peale

 Man’s mind stretched by a new idea never goes back to its original
dimension....	 —Oliver W. Holmes

 Your mind is your predicament. It wants to be free of change, free of
pain, free of the obligations of life and death....	 —Dan Millman

 We are caught in the prison of the mind. If we are to escape we must
recognize that we are in prison. If we think we are free, then no escape
is possible....	 —George I. Gurdjieff

 If you were to practice keeping your mind motionless at all times with
the object of not creating any thought, the result would be no dualism,
no dependence upon others, and no attachment; if you would allow all
matters to take their own course throughout the day as if you were too
ill to bother, without the specific to be known or unknown to others,
with a mind like a block of stone that mends no holes, then the
universal law would deeply impregnate your understanding....

 —Huang Po

 Small minds cannot handle great themes....	— St. Jerome

 There is nothing wrong with God’s creation. Misery and suffering only
exist in the mind....

 —Ramana Maharshi

 A  closed mind is an enigma, indeed. Nothing ever goes in—but odd
things are forever coming out....

 —Lawrence Dunphy

 Our minds have unbelievable power over our bodies....	 —Andre Maurois

 318 *	Mind

 The mind is, without a doubt, unsteady and difficult to curb, but it
can be controlled through practice and dispassion....	— Bhagavad-Gita

 Empty your mind. Become still, and everything will happen of its own
accord. There is really nothing you have to do. Just be still....

 —Robert Adams

 What is done by the mind is action, what is done by the body is not
action....The physical body achieves nothing, on the other hand, the
mental body gets results....	 —Yoga Vasistha

 To the mind that is still, the whole universe surrenders....	 —Chuang
Tse

 If you are always thinking about worldly things your mind becomes
dirty. From a spiritual point of view the mind is like a mirror; it is
only useful when it is clean....	 —Saradamma

 What a superb thing it would be if we were big enough in mind to see no
slights, accept no insults, cherish no jealousies and admit into our
heart no hatred....	 —Elbert Hubbard

 Mind no longer appears as an accidental intruder in the realm of
Matter. We are beginning to suspect that we ought rather to hail it as
the creator and governor of the realm of Matter. Not, of course, our
individual minds, but the Mind in which the atoms, out of which our
individual minds have grown, exist as Thought....

 —James Jeans

 Only the receptive open mind can receive. Even the Sun’s light cannot
come in through closed windows....

 — J. Abelson

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Mind

 319

 -  *8p Mind

 If there’s no desire in the mind, there’s no mind at all. The mind
is like a rockpile. Take all the rocks away and there is no pile....	—
Satchidananda

 Could one....remove the top of the most conventional individual’s
head and see the forbidden and obscene thoughts that constantly stream
through the mind, one would be appalled....

 —Abraham Myerson

 Mind alone is neither moral nor immoral, any more than your automobile.
It is a machine as truly as your car....	— Julian P. Johnson

 The mind is an instrument for communication, for practical purposes.
The mind cannot grasp the truth. The Self witnesses the mind, but the
mind cannot catch hold of the Self....The mind can only work with some
name or form or image. If you give this up, the mind will be
helpless....

 —Nisargadatta

 Great minds have purpose; others have wishes. Little minds are tamed
and subdued by misfortunes, but great minds rise above them....

 —Washington Irving

 The causes of all poverty are in the mind, and when these are removed
abundance fills the life to overflowing. This does not mean the
acquisition of great wealth, but something far better in every way....
— Henry T. Hamblin

 The mind detached is of such nobility that what it sees is true, what
it desires befalls and its behests must be obeyed....	— Avicenna

 One should use the mind in such a way that it be free from any
attachment....

 —Diamond Sutra

 <3te>

 Mind is the deadliest of foes, but themost useful of servants. When it
turnswild and gets out of control, it headsfor certain destruction. When
properlyawakened and controlled, there is nolimit to what the mind can
do....

 —Charan Singh

 Narrow minds think nothing right thatis above their own capacity....

 —Francois La Rochefoucauld

 The immature mind hops from onething to another; the mature mindseeks
to follow through....

 —Harry A. Overstreet

 The man who has acquired the powerof keeping his mind filled with
thethoughts which uplift and encourage,the optimistic thought, the
cheerful,hopeful thought, has solved one of thegreat riddles of life....

 —Orison S. Marden

 Our minds possess by nature aninsatiable desire to know the truth....

 —Cicero

 A weak mind is like a microscope,which magnifies trifling things,
butcannot receive great ones....

 —Philip Chesterfield

 When my mind is all made up to bemiserable, I stop to consider; and I
amconvinced that not the world nor thepeople in it, but only my mind
canmake me miserable—or happy....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 Our minds are like our stomachs, theyare whetted by the change of
theirfood, and variety supplies both withfresh appetite....	—
Quintilian

 Memory, of all the powers of the mind,is the most delicate and
frail....

 —Ben Jonson

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Mind

 320

 -  ■?apr -

 Mind

 The mind is like a strolling street dog. You are eating out of garbage
cans. You who are heir to immortal glory, divine blessedness—why are
you picking up these little droppings and trying to fill yourself?...
— Sivananda

 The mind’s highest good is the knowledge of God, and the mind’s
highest virtue is to know God....

 —Baruch Spinoza

 Curiosity is, in great and generous minds, the first passion and the
last....

 -—Samuel Johnson

 The pure mind which is the source of all things, shines forever with
the radiance of its own perfection....

 —Huang Po

 The best way to promote the clearness of our mind, is by showing its
faults; as when a stream discovers the dirt at the bottom, it convinces
us of the transparency and purity of the water....

 —Alexander Pope

 The mind has to be still, not made still. Effort only leads to a rigid
mind. When it realizes the futility of effort to penetrate to reality,
the mind becomes still....	— L. C. Soper

 A mind always determined has always a determined walk. A mind always
weak, shifting, vacillating, and uncertain, makes a shuffling,
shambling, uncertain gait....	— Prentice Mulford

 Mind control is not one’s birthright. The successful few owe their
success to their perseverance....

 —Ramana Maharshi

 The Infinite has left us free to experience whatsoever we desire to
create through our minds....

 —Raymond C. Barker

 A closed mind is a dying mind....

 —Edna Ferber

 There is no state of mind, however simple, which does not change every
moment....	— Henri Bergson

 Our minds are like crows. They pick up everything that glitters, no
matter how uncomfortable our nests get with all that metal in them....
— Thomas Merton

 The intellect....is the link that joins us to God....	— Maimonides

 The cessation of the mind’s waves is liberation....	 —Patanjali

 The “inner voice” is not always reliable, as much depends upon the
purity of one’s mind....	— Shantidasa

 Instead of wanting to look at the back of the moon, remote from our
lives, we can try to look at the back of our own minds....	— J. B.
Priestley

 The mind is a dangerous weapon, even to the possessor, if he knows not
discreetly how to use it....

 —Michel Montaigne

 Man alone is the architect of his destiny. The greatest revolution in
my generation is that human beings, by changing the inner attitudes of
the mind, can change the outer aspects of their lives....	— William
James

 Wisdom entereth not into a malicious mind....	— Francois Rabelais

 “Thoughtlessness” is to see and to know all things with a mind free
from attachment....	— Hui-Neng

 Man’s minds perceive second causes, but only prophets perceive the
action of the First Cause....	— Rumi

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Mind 	♦?	 3

 The human spirit is so great that no man can express it; could we
rightly comprehend the mind of man nothing would be impossible to us
upon the earth....	— Paracelsus

 The mind that wishes to behold God must itself become God....	—
Plotinus

 All that is comes from the mind; it is based on the mind, it is
fashioned by the mind....	— The Pali Canon

 If your mind is empty, it is always ready for anything; it is open to
everything. In the beginner’s mind there are many possibilities; in
the expert’s mind there are few....

 —Shunryu Suzuki

 Every passion, every emotion, has its effect upon the mind. Every
change of mind, however slight, has its effect upon the body....

 —Hazrat Inayat Khan

 Calmness of mind does not mean you should stop your activity. Real
calmness should be activity itself....

 —Ram Dass

 It is not the body that is ill, but the mind....	— S. Weir Mitchell

 The mind is said to be two fold: the pure and also the impure; impure
by union with desire—pure when from desire completely free....

 —The Upanishads

 Mind is consciousness which has put on limitations. You are originally
unlimited and perfect. Later you take on limitations and become the
mind....

 —Ramana Maharshi

 The mind grows narrow in proportion as the soul grows corrupt....

 —Jean J. Rousseau

 1  ♦?	 Mind

 In the sky there is no distinction of east and west; people create
distinctions out of their own minds and then believe them to be true....

 —Gautama Buddha

 Excitement exhausts the mind, and leaves it withered and sterile....

 —Francois Fenelon

 Man’s mind is his essence; he is where his thoughts are....

 —Nahman Bratzlav

 The function of the mind is thinking; when you think, you keep your
mind, and when you don’t think, you lose your mind....That is how a
man becomes a great man....	— Mencius

 Minds are not conquered by force, but by love and highmindedness....

 —Baruch Spinoza

 The attainment of the one-pointedness of the mind and the senses is the
best of austerities. It is superior to all religious duties....	—
Sankaracharya

 Praise be God who has given us a mind that cannot be satisfied with the
temporal....	— Nicholas of Cusa

 The mind is a useful servant, but a very bad master....	— Julian P.
Johnson

 The mind of the sage being in repose becomes the mirror of the
universe. The repose of the sage is not what the world calls repose. His
repose is the result of his mental attitude. All creation could not
disturb his equilibrium: hence his repose....

 —Chuang Tse

 The mind has a way of being drawn away by passing fancy....The mind is
the enchanter, the usurper who has established sovereignty over you....

 —Sathya Sai Baba

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Mind	*	322	*	Mind

  ^	

 Mind is thought. Thought means emotions, hopes, memory. Erase the
emotions, good or bad, erase hope and disappointments, erase the memory,
and the mind will be stilled....

 —Deepa Kodihal

 The mind denies that which it cannot understand. In valuing the mind as
much as we do, we have a tendency to deny mystery, to deny the
spiritual....

 —Rachel N. Remen

 Only the just man enjoys peace of mind....	— Epicurus

 A pure mind in a chaste body is the mother of wisdom and
deliberation....

 —Jeremy Taylor

 Chastity is a mind that is completely free from all image-making, all
the pictures, sensations, which thought has built in its search for
pleasure through sex. Then you will find an abundance of energy....	—
J. Krishnamurti

 The sound body is a product of the sound mind....	 —George B. Shaw

 The mind flows along the course of wisdom or of ignorance, in whatever
direction you make it flow....

 —Yoga Vasistha

 Our minds are finite, and yet even in these circumstances of finitude
we are surrounded by possibilities that are infinite, and the purpose of
human life is to grasp as much as we can of that infinitude....	—
Alfred N. Whitehead

 A  tamed mind brings happiness....

 —Dhammapada

 The perfect man’s mind is like a mirror. It grasps nothing; it
refuses nothing. It receives, but does not keep....	— Chuang Tse

 Anything the human mind can believe, the human mind can achieve....

 —Napoleon Hill

 Purity of mind and idleness are incompatible....	— Mohandas Gandhi

 The husbandman deals with land; physicians and trainers with the body;
the wise man with his own Mind....

 -—Epictetus

 We are, through our mental conditions, always drawing things to us good
and bad, beneficial or injurious, pleasant or disagreeable....	—
Prentice Mulford

 Your mind may be likened to an incubator which provides the proper
conditions for thoughts to grow. It matters not the thought, be it
positive or negative, if concentrated upon sufficiently, it will
flourish....

 —Shantidasa

 I believe that the mind has the power to affect groups of atoms and
even tamper with the odds of atomic behavior, and that even the course
of the world is not predetermined by physical laws but may be altered by
the uncaused volition of human beings....

 —Arthur Eddington

 Make up your mind you can’t—and you’re always right....	— Bob
Goddard

 It is the mind that maketh good or ill, that maketh wretch or happy,
rich or poor....	— Edmund Spenser

 Everything that has happened to you has come about because you first
saw it happening in your mind’s eye....

 —Howard Sherman

 When you have learned to control your mind in the face of disturbances,
then your mind has acquired one- pointedness....	-— Patanjali

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Mind 	♦?	 323	*	Mind

   	

 The secret of strength lies in the quiet mind....	 —Grace	Cooke

 When everything has its proper place in our minds, we are able to stand
in equilibrium with the rest of the world....	 —Henri F. Amiel

 In the province of the mind, what one believes to be true either is
true or becomes true....	 —John Lilly

 As soon as the mind perceives differences, it awakens desire, grasping
and....suffering....If the mind could remain undisturbed by differences
and distinctions, the concept of an ego would die away....	 —Asvaghosa

 It is impossible for you to receive that which your mind refuses to
accept....

 —Ernest Holmes

 The marvel of the living mind is that when it is illumined it can move
into uncharted territories. It is enabled to take this step not out of
reaction to the hurts of the past, but through the miracle of liberation
from them....

 —Indira Gandhi

 Have a happy state of mind, a state that is untouched by the events of
life....

 —Paramahansa Yogananda

 The mind is like a fire which is fueled by thoughts and desires. If
there are no thoughts or desires, then the fire of the mind will die
out....	 —Lakshmana

 Little minds are too much hurt by little events. Great minds understand
all of them, and remain undisturbed....

 —Francois La Rochefoucauld

 The mind is like the body—the less its possessor is aware of it the
more easy it’s working....	 —Pearl S. Buck

 If men could regard the events of their lives with more open minds,
they would frequently discover that they did not really desire the
things they failed to obtain....	 —Andre Maurois

 Though we may not always realize it, it is the mind, not external
events, that drives our constant state of urgency and restlessness...

 —Eknath Easwaran

 Great spirits have always encountered violent opposition from mediocre
minds....	 —Albert Einstein

 Most of the difficulties arise in your daily life if you do not have
proper control over your mind. For instance, if a man does evil to you,
instantly you want revenge, to extract tooth for tooth, tit for tat
policy; to return anger for anger. Every reaction of evil shows that the
mind is not under control. By anger one loses his energy....

 —Robert Collier

 Mind will never select a new course of action, unless a new force
enters into it from without itself. Otherwise, it will go on
indefinitely doing exactly what it has been trained to do. Mind does not
want to do differently from what it has become accustomed. It resents
innovation. It dislikes change....

 —Julian P. Johnson

 The more accurately we search into the human mind, the stronger traces
we everywhere find of the wisdom of Him who made it....	 —Edmund Burke

 By annihilating desires you annihilate the mind....	 —Claude A.
Helvetius

 When the mind is stilled, when the intellect is stilled, that is called
the highest state by the wise....

 —The Uyanishads

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Miracles

 &

  Miracles 

 hat....is a miracle? Nothingmore or less than this: a highly

 illumined soul, one who has broughthis life into harmony with the
higherspiritual laws....	— Ralph W. Trine

 Whatever a righteous man wishes is approved by God. Whatever a
righteous man writes, God signs, and it is an everlasting testament....

 —Eliphas Levi

 Miracles are natural and involuntary, and should not be under conscious
control....	— A Course In Miracles

 Miracles are instantaneous; they cannot be summoned, but they come of
themselves, usually at unlikely moments and to those who least expect
them....

 —Katherine A. Porter

 All God’s angels come to us disguised....

 —James Russell Lowell

 A miracle is what happens when you are going from one point to another
in your life and suddenly you are at your destination without taking
what you thought were the necessary steps....

 —Ron Smothermon

 True miracles are created by men when they use the courage and
intelligence that God gave them....

 —Jean Anouilh

 To me every hour of the light and dark is a miracle, every cubic inch
of space is a miracle....	— Walt Whitman

 Miracles only happen to people who believe in them....	— Anonymous

 4 *	Miracles

 There are only two ways to live your life. One is as though nothing is
a miracle. The other is as though everything is a miracle....

 —Albert Einstein

 Miracles only work through your own faith. Where there is no faith
there can be no miracle. So he who wants to perform a miracle can only
do so by the power of faith. From this it is evident that the matter
rests entirely with you....	— Papa Ramdas

 Yes, it is true, I am a miracle. I am a miracle like a tree is a
miracle, like a flower is a miracle. Now, if 1 am a miracle, can I do a
bad thing? I can’t, because I am a miracle, I am a miracle....	—
Pablo Casals

 To be a miracle worker you do not have to get a doctoral degree, become
a minister, eat a particular food, or be able to meditate for long
hours. All you need to do is to begin to see beauty in your life and
those around you....

 —Alan Cohen

 The man who does not believe in miracles surely makes it certain that
he will never take part in one....

 —William Blake

 You shall know the truth and the truth shall make you free. This is
true in everything. Once you really know, the thing is accomplished, the
miracle wrought....	 —Henry T. Ha m bl in

 To create miracles, you have to be very clear about what it is you
want. By acting forthright and acting as if you have already obtained
the object or condition that you desire, you create such a powerful
energy that the Universal Law gives you what you want....	— Stuart
Wilde

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Miracles 	♦?	 325	*	Moderation

   A miracle implies interfering with nature. Anyone on the path of
self- realization finds that he slowly acquires certain powers by which
he can perform small miracles. But these are to be shunned....	— Deepa
Kodikal

 A miracle is an event which creates faith. Frauds deceive. An event
which creates faith does not deceive; therefore it is not a fraud, but a
miracle....

 —George B. Shaw

 A miracle cannot prove what is impossible; it is useful only to confirm
what is possible....	— Maimonides

 To aim to convert a man by miracles is a profanation of the soul....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 What we cannot do, God in us can do. What seems impossible to us is
possible with God....	— Martha Smock

 Where there is great love there are always miracles. Miracles rest not
so much upon faces or voice or healing power coming to us from afar off,
but in our own perceptions being finer....

 —Willa Cather

 The place where light and dark begin to touch is where miracles
arise....

 —Robert A. Johnson

 We are miracles. Each of us is an absolute astonishment. So whether you
believe in miracles or not, we still are. We still partake of
“miracledom.”...

 —Ruby Doe

 A coincidence is a small miracle where God chose to remain
anonymous....

 —Heide Quade

 Miracles are signs not to them that believe, but to them that
disbelieve....

 —Thomas Aquinas

 A  miracle is no argument to one who is deliberately, and on principle,
an atheist....	— John H. Newman

 If angels come not to minister unto us it is because we do not invite
them, it is because we keep the door closed through which they might
otherwise enter....	— Ralph W. Trine

 A  miracle is never lost. It may touch many people you have not even
met, and produce undreamed changes in situations of which you are not
even aware....	— A Course In Miracles

 Self-sacrifice is the real miracle out of which all the reported
miracles grew....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 You are always wanting miracles; but God sows miracles by handfuls
under your feet, and yet you still have men who deny their existence....

 —Allan Kardec

 &

  Moderation 

 T

 hose who know when they haveenough are wealthy....The silken

 cord running through the chain of allvirtues is moderation....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 Everything that exceeds the bounds of moderation has an unstable
foundation....	— Seneca

 An addiction is measured not by what an individual does, but by what he
or she cannot do....	— Jay Rohrlick

 If you don’t have enough you won’t be happy. Neither are you happy
if you have too much. It is those who have enough but not too much who
are the happiest....	— Peace Pilgrim

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Moderation

 326

 - ' w-  -

 Moderation

 A man can enough....

 find satisfaction with —Keri Hulme

 Extremes, though contrary, have like effects. Extreme heat kills, and
so extreme cold; extreme love breeds satiety, and so extreme hatred....

 —George Chapman

 If a man oversteps the limits of moderation, he pollutes his body and
mind. To be god-like is to be natural; to be natural is to follow
Nature...(i.e., to keep) within the limits set by instinct and
reason....	— Inazo Nitobe

 If you have too much of anything, you cannot know yourself....

 —Bhagavan Das

 Moderation is the only virtue. The other so-called virtues are virtuous
only insofar as they are joined with moderation....	— Charlton
Ogbum,Jr.

 Good sense avoids all extremes, and requires us to be soberly
rational....

 —Jean B. Moliere

 Nonviolent extremes endure; a sober moderation stands secure....

 —Charles Alleyn

 There is a mean in everything. Even virtue itself has its sated limits,
which, not being strictly observed, it ceases to be virtue....	—
Horace

 He knows to live who keeps the middle state....	— Alexander Pope

 The choicest pleasures of life lie within the ring of moderation....

 —Martin Tapper

 There should be balance in all our actions; to be either extreme or
lukewarm is equally bad....

 —Hazrat Inayat Khan

 He who wants to do everything will never do anything....

 —Andre Maurois

 Neither great poverty nor great riches will hear reason....	— Henry
Fielding

 To go beyond the bounds of moderation is to outrage humanity. The
greatness of the human soul is shown by knowing how to keep within
proper bounds....There are two equally dangerous extremes—to shut
reason out, and not to let nothing in....

 —Blaise Pascal

 Every excessive power wears itself out....	— Johann G. Herder

 All extremes are error. The reverse of error is not truth but error
still. Truth lies between these extremes....

 —Richard Cecil

 You will go most safely in the middle....

 —Ovid

 The greatest flood has soonest ebb; the sorest tempest, the most sudden
calm; the hottest love, the coldest end....

 —Socrates

 The true boundary of man is moderation....	— Owen Felltham

 All excess brings on its own punishments....Moderation is the
inseparable companion of wisdom....

 —Charles C. Colton

 There should be moderation in all things....	— Apocrypha: Aristeas

 Moderation in temper is always a virtue; but moderation in principle is
always a vice....	— Thomas Paine

 A  wise man will carefully avoid excess, lest he give the impression of
haughtiness....	— Maimonides

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Moderation	*	3

 An excess of sorrow is as foolish as profuse laughter; while, on the
other hand, not to mourn at all is insensitivity....	— Seneca

 Temperance is moderation in the things that are good and total
abstinence from the things that are foul....	— Frances E. Willard

 There is a proper measure in all things, certain limits beyond which
and short of which right is not to be found....Who so cultivates the
golden mean avoids the poverty of a hovel and the envy of a palace....
— Horace

 Extreme views are never just; something always turns up which disturbs
the calculations founded on their data....	— Tancred

 Moderate desires constitute a character fitted to acquire all the good
which the world can yield....	— Timothy Dwight

 An excess of courtesy is discourteous....

 —Japanese proverb

 To go beyond is as bad as to fall short....

 —Chinese proverb

 Keep the golden mean between saying

 too much and too little	

 -—Publilius Syrus

 &

  Money 

 M

 oney is a wonderful thing, but itis possible to pay too high a

 price for it....	— Alexander Bloch

 To possess money is very well; it may be a valuable servant; to be
possessed by it, is to be possessed by the devil, and one of the meanest
and worst kind of devils....	— Tryon Edwards

 7 ♦?	 Money

 The poorest man in the world is he who has nothing but money....

 —John D. Rockefeller

 If money be not thy servant, it will be thy master. The covetous cannot
so properly be said to possess wealth, as that it may be said to possess
him....

 —Francis Bacon

 Empty pockets never held anyone back. It’s only empty heads and empty
hearts that do it....	— Norman V. Peale

 Preoccupation with money is the great test of small natures, but only a
small test of great ones....

 —Nicolas de Chamfort

 Money is human happiness in the abstract: he, then, who is no longer
capable of enjoying human happiness in the concrete devotes his heart
entirely to money....	— Arthur Schopenhauer

 Where there is money, there is fighting....	— Marian Anderson

 Money destroys human roots wherever it is able to penetrate, by turning
desire for gain into the sole motive....

 —Simone Weil

 For money, people sell their soul....

 Sophocles

 As long as money is our servant it works for us, the moment it becomes
master we work for it....

 —Alice H. Rice

 Money is in some respects like fire—it is a very excellent servant
but a terrible master....	— P. T. Bamum

 Money attracts egotism and irresistibly leads to its misuse....

 —Albert Einstein

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Money	*	328 	♦?	 Money

 	 *sp;-	

 Money was meant to be our servant. But when we depend on servants too
much they gradually become our masters....	— Philip Slater

 To have enough is good luck, to have more than enough is harmful. This
is true of all things, but especially money....	— Chuang Tse

 Whoever desires money never has enough of it, there always seems to be
lack, and more never seems to be quite enough....	— Anonymous

 Money is a bottomless sea, in which honor, conscience, and truth may be
drowned....	— Kozlay

 Money will come to you when you are doing the right thing....

 —Michael Philips

 Money often costs too much....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 The golden age only comes to men when they have forgotten gold....

 —G.  K. Chesterton

 Money can help you to get medicines, but not health. Money can help you
to get soft pillows, but not sound sleep. Money can help you to get
material comforts, but not eternal bliss. Money can help you get
ornaments, but not beauty....	— Sivananda

 Gold is a fool’s curtain, which hides all his defects from the
world....

 —Owen Felltham

 Money can buy the husk of things, but not the kernel. It brings you
food but not appetite, medicine but not health, acquaintances but not
friends, servants but not faithfulness, days of joy but not peace or
happiness....

 —Henrik Ibsen

 Make money your God, it will plague you like the devil....

 —Henry Fielding

 There are two laws known by spiritual teachers everywhere, and in all
ages, which must be at all times obeyed, for most dire consequences
follow their disregard or violation....That on no account a charge be
demanded for revealing spiritual truths and that all money received by
the teacher be regarded as God’s and used accordingly....	— Henry T.
Hamblin

 Happiness cannot be bought; indeed, money has very little to do with
it....

 —William S. Ogden

 It’s good to have money and the things that money can buy, but it’s
good, too, to check up once in a while and make sure you haven’t lost
the things that money can’t buy....

 —George H. Lorimer

 The greedy search for money or success will almost always lead men into
unhappiness. Why? Because that kind of life makes them depend upon
things outside themselves....

 —Andre Maurois

 Superfluous wealth can buy superfluities only. Money is not required
for one necessity of the soul....

 —Henry D. Thoreau

 I can’t afford to waste my time making money....	— Louis Agassiz

 Money is the cause of good things to a good man, and evil things to a
bad man....	— Philo

 If someone thinks that when he or she makes a million dollars, he or
she will be happy, that person is a very great fool....	— Leo
Buscaglia

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Money

 329_

 Nature

 Starting out to make money is the greatest mistake in life. Do what you
have a flair for doing, and if you are good enough at it money will
come....

 —William Rootes

 The love of money is the mother of all evil....	— Phocylides

 All love has something of blindness in it, but the love of money
especially....

 -—Robert South

 He who loves money never has money enough; he who loves wealth never
has profit enough....	— Ecclesiastes

 Money never made a man happy yet, nor will it. There is nothing in its
nature to produce happiness. The more a man has, the more he wants.
Instead of filling a vacuum, it makes one....

 —Benjamin Franklin

 The darkest hour of any man’s life is when he sits down to plan how
to get money without earning it....

 —Horace Greeley

 The only problems money can solve are money problems....

 —Jay W. Forrester

 Money is two steps removed from happiness....	— David G. Myers

 Money spent on ourselves may be a millstone about the neck; spent on
others it may give us wings like eagles....	— Roswell D. Hitchcock

 If money is your hope for independence you will never have it. The only
real security that a man can have in the world is a reserve of
knowledge, experience, and ability....

 —Henry Ford

 Money is like manure, of very little use except to be spread....

 —Francis Bacon

 Money breeds insensitiveness....

 —Aldous Huxley

 When a fellow says it ain’t the money but the principle of the thing,
it’s the money....	— Artemus Ward

 That man is admired above all men who is not influenced by money....

 —Cicero

 Nothing that is God’s is obtainable by money....	— Tertullian

 Accumulated money brings misery to the owner. Keep money flowing....

 —Papa Ramdas

  Nature 

 N

 ature is but a name for an effectwhose cause is God....

 —William Cowper

 Nature is always generous and kind even though we may not always like
her ways....	— Julian P. Johnson

 Man masters nature not by force but by understanding....	— Jacob
Bronowshi

 Nature provides exceptions to every rule....	— Margaret Fuller

 Nature is a volume of what God is the author....	— Moses Harvey

 Nature does nothing uselessly....

 —Aristotle

 In nature nothing creates itself and nothing destroys itself....

 —Maria Montessori

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890       shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890    
  shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Nature

 330

 -  -

  Nature 

 Nature is always trying to adjust itself and, in that adjustment,
destruction also plays an important part....

 —Papa Ramdas

 Nature is an endless combination and repetition of a very few laws. She
hums the old well-known air through innumerable variations....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 Nature never leaps toward what she will eventually bring about....

 —Johann W. Goethe

 We do not see nature with our eyes, but with our understanding and our
hearts....	— William Hazlitt

 Repetition is the only form of permanence that nature can achieve....

 —George Santayana

 Nature is our mother. Because we live cut off from her, we get sick....

 —Thich Nhat Hanh

 What one has achieved can be attained by another. This is the grand law
of Nature....	— Sivananda

 Nature is the signature of God....

 —Coqosh Auh-Ho-Oh

 The law’s of God’s Nature are written on Nature’s face; but it
takes whole lifetimes of intense research by the ablest scientists to
decipher one now, one again....	— J. Abelson

 Nature is one grand cosmic book describing the power and majesty of
God....	— John A. O’Brien

 Every spring Nature writes a fresh, new chapter in the Book of
Genesis....

 —Anonymous

 Nature is visible thought....

 —Heinrich Heine

 Nature’s intent is neither food, nor drink, nor clothing, nor
comfort, nor anything else in which God is left out. Whether you like it
or not, whether you know it or not, secretly nature seeks, hunts, tries
to ferret out the track on which God may be found....

 —Meister Eckhart

 Nature has devised a grand plan leading toward perfection. Life itself
is one lengthy march to such an ideal using death as the process by
which the tainted and the imperfect are recycled into another more
enduring form....

 —Shantidasa

 There is no other door to knowledge than the door nature opens; there
is no other truth except the truths we discover in nature....

 —Luther Burbank

 Whether man is disposed to yield to nature or to oppose her, he cannot
do so without a correct understanding of her language....	— Jean
Rostand

 Nature uses as little as possible of everything....	— Johannes Kepler

 Nature always takes her time. Great oaks don’t become great
overnight. They also lose a lot of leaves, branches and bark in the
process of becoming great....	— Andrew Matthews

 Nature is constantly seeking to show man that he is his own best
friend, or his own worst enemy. Nature gives man the option on which he
will be to himself....	— William G. Jordan

 Leave all things to take their natural course, and do not interfere....

 — Lao-tzu

 We cannot fail in following nature....

 —Michel Montaigne

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Nature	*	3

 Nature does not complete things. She is chaotic. Man must finish, and
he does so by making a garden and building a wall....	— Robert Frost

 He who understands nature walks with God....	— Edgar Cayce

 If you only sit and reflect on the wonders of nature, you will
gradually begin to feel that everything happens by divine will and
power....	— Papa Ramdas

 There is no trifling with nature; it is always true, dignified, and
just; it is always in the right, and the faults and errors belong to us.
Nature defies incompetence, but reveals its secrets to the competent,
the truthful, and the pure....	— Johann W. Goethe

 Nature, to be commanded, must be obeyed....	— Francis Bacon

 Nature, in her indifference, makes no distinction between good and
evil....

 —Anatole France

 Nature is a light, and by looking at Nature in her own light we will
understand her. Visible Nature can be seen in her visible light;
invisible Nature will become visible if we acquire the power to perceive
her in her inner light....	— Paracelsus

 Nature has some perfections, to show us that she is the image of God;
and some imperfections to show us that she is only His image....

 —Blaise Pascal

 Everything in nature contains all the powers of nature. Everything is
made of one hidden stuff....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 Nature is man’s teacher. She unfolds her treasure to his search,
unseals his eye, illumes his mind, and purifies his heart....	— Alfred
B. Street

 1 *	Nature

 Nature always springs to the surface and manages to show what she is.
It is vain to stop or try to drive her back. She breaks through every
obstacle, pushes forward, and at last makes for herself a way....	—
Nicolas Boileau

 I follow nature as the surest guide, and resign myself, with implicit
obedience, to her sacred ordinances.... — Cicero

 If I were to name the three most precious resources of life, I would
say books, friends and nature; and the greatest of these, at least the
most constant and always at hand, is nature....	— John Burroughs

 All nature in its myriad forms of life is changeable, impermanent,
unenduring. Only the informing Principle of nature endures. Nature is
many, and is marked by separation. The informing Principle is One, and
marked by unity....	— James Allen

 Nature and wisdom always say the same....Never does nature say one
thing and wisdom another....	— Juvenal

 Our Mother, the earth, is in the middle, made round like an egg, and
has all good things in herself, like a honeycomb....	— Trimalchio

 Nature has no beginning and no end. Everything in it acts upon
everything else, everything is relative, everything is at once effect
and cause, acting and reacting on all sides....

 —Ludwig Feuerbach

 Nature never deserts the wise and pure....	— Hartley Coleridge

 When a man digs a grave and there buries deep his ugly thoughts, when a
man spades up a garden of kindly feelings, he is working with nature....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Nature	* 	j

 Nature has neither kernel nor shell; she is everything at
once....Nature knows no pause in progress and development, and attaches
her curse on all inaction....

 —Johann W. Goethe

 Nature is avariciously frugal; in matter, it allows no atom to elude
its grasp; in mind, no thought or feeling to perish. It gathers up the
fragments that nothing is lost....	— David Thomas

 Nature never makes any fuss, and yet it does everything....	— Lao-tzu

 You could cover the whole world with asphalt, but sooner or later green
grass would break through....

 —Ilya Ehrenburg

 The laws of nature are just, but terrible. There is no weak mercy in
them. Cause and consequence are inseparable and inevitable....	— Henry
W. Longfellow

 The grand show is eternal. It is always sunrise somewhere; the dew is
never all dried at once; a shower is forever falling; vapor is ever
rising....

 —John Muir

 Nature speaks in symbols and signs....

 —John G. Whittier

 Nature has placed mankind under the government of two sovereign
masters, pain and pleasure....	— Jeremy Bentham

 Nature is the most thrifty thing in the world; she never wastes
anything; she undergoes change, but there is no annihilation—the
essence remains....

 —Thomas Binney

 Nature never deceives us; it is always we who deceive ourselves....

 —Jean J. Rousseau

 2 *	Nothing/Emptiness

 ?  	

 No man can violate Nature’s laws and

 escape her penalties....

 —Julian P. Johnson

 Nature is no spendthrift, but takes the shortest way to her ends....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 Nature gives to every time and season some beauties of its own; and
from morning to night, as from the cradle to the grave, is a succession
of changes so gentle and easy we can scarcely mark their progress....
— Charles Dickens

 In the whole realm of nature there is nothing purposeless, trivial or
unnecessary....	— Maimonides

 Nature seems reluctant to reveal her secrets to the intellectually
arrogant....

 —Harold Burr

 It is not true that equality is a law of nature. Nature has no
equality. Its sovereign law is subordination and dependence....

 —Luc de Clapiers Vauvenargues

 Nature cannot be hastened. The bloom of a flower opens in its own
proper time....	— Paul Brunton

 M

  Nothing/ Emptiness 

 G

 od made everything out of noth-ing....	— Paul Valery

 “Blessed is the man who expects noth-ing, for he shall never be
disappointed”was the ninth beatitude....

 —Alexander Pope

 Your nothingness is the miraculousessence of God....

 —A Spiritual Warrior

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Nothing/Emptiness	*	 j

 God is nothingness. God is just Being. There is nothing to see, nothing
to tell. It is just nothingness. And yet this nothing is total bliss.
Bliss Divine....

 —Deepa Kodikal

 When you have reduced yourself to nothing—when your “self” has
disappeared—when you have become nothing, then you are yourself God.
The man who is nothing knows God, for God is nothing. Nothing is
everything....	— Yoga Swami

 There is nothing to do. Just be. Do nothing. Be. No climbing mountains
and sitting in caves. I do not even say ‘be yourself’ since you do
not know yourself. Just be....	— Nisargadatta

 Nothing is necessary except God....

 —Joseph de Maistre

 The truth is that everything and nothing are the same and that we are
both. You are not your body and your body is contained within you....

 —Ron Smothermon

 Seeing into nothingness—this is the true seeing, the eternal
seeing....

 —Shen Hai

 Nothing is void of God; He Himself fills his work....	— Seneca

 Become envious of anyone lower than you. You must become very small. In
fact you must become nothing. Only a person who is nobody can abide in
the Self....	—Ramana  Maharshi

 When nothing is sure, everything is possible....	— Margaret Drabble

 All my life I believed I was somebody. But then one strange day came
when I realized that I knew nothing, yes, I knew nothing. And so words
became void of meaning....	— Ezra Pound

 3 *	Nothing/Emptiness

 To be empty, completely empty, is not a fearsome thing; it is
absolutely essential for the mind to be unoccupied; to be empty,
unenforced, for then only it can move into unknown depths....

 — J. Krishnamurti

 Everything is the nature of no thing....

 —Parmenides

 Death and emptiness are the firm ground upon which life walks....

 —Alan Watts

 The game is not about becoming somebody, it’s about becoming
nobody....	— Ram Dass

 After I realized I knew nothing—I realized that I knew everything....

 —Werner Erhard

 Out of emptiness arises compassion....

 —Buddhist saying

 It takes a long time to understand nothing....	— Edward Dahlberg

 When one does nothing, nothing is left undone....	— Hindu saying

 Among the great things which are to be found among us, the being of
nothingness is the greatest....

 —Leonardo da Vinci

 Only when we are nothing do we become everything....

 —Nancy D. Potts

 Born from nothingness, man goes back to nothingness....	— Seneca

 Nothing is better than something....

 —Hari Dass

 I am not what I am, and I am what I am not....	— Jean-Paul Sartre

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Nothing/Emptiness

 To be able to do away with a thing, that is to say, to fling it into
nothingness, nothingness would have to exist; and, if it exists, under
whatsoever form, it is no longer nothingness....

 —Maurice Maeterlinck

 God is nothing....

 — St. Dionysius

 One of thine attributes is pure nothingness, which belongeth unto thee
and unto the world in its entirety. If thou acknowledge thy nothingness,
He will increase thee with His being....

 —Shaykh Ahmad al’Alawi

 This then is the sum of great knowledge for a man to know that by
himself he is nothing....  —Augustine

 It is only because the sage does nothing that he can do everything....
— Lao-tzu

 Many people are afraid to empty their minds lest they may plunge into
the Void. They do not know that their own Mind is the Void....	— Huang
Po

 That you may have pleasure in everything, seek pleasure in nothing.
That you may know everything, seek to know nothing. That you may possess
all things, seek to possess nothing. That you may be everything, seek to
be nothing....	— John of the Cross

 Ideas come from space. This may seem astonishing and impossible to
believe, but it is true. Ideas come from out of space....	— Thomas
Edison

 Do not vainly lament but realize that nothing is permanent and learn
from it the emptiness of life....

 —Gautama Buddha

 Become nothing before God....

 —Soren Kierkegaard

 334  ♦?	 Nothing/Emptiness

 When you demand nothing of the world, nor of God, when you want
nothing, expect nothing, then the Supreme State will come to you
uninvited and unexpected....

 —Nisargadatta

 God fills the place men call space. There is no place that God is not,
for God is All....	— James B. Schafer

 Nothing is brought into this world and nothing can be taken....

 —Nityananda

 Only he has become so free from self as to be equally content to be
annihilated, is fit to enter into the Infinite....

 —James Allen

 I’m Nobody! Who are you? Are you— Nobody—Too? Then there’s a
pair of us? Don’t tell!...	-— Emily Dickinson

 Heaven and earth do nothing, yet there is nothing they do not
accomplish....

 —Chuang Tse

 Know that the world, although appearing as substantial, has nothing
substantial in it: it is a void, being merely an appearance created by
the images and vagaries of the mind....

 —Yoga Vasistha

 Have your mind like unto space....

 — D. T. Suzuki

 Emptiness is perhaps the greatest wealth one can possess, for it
provides the arena for adventure, discovery and creativity....	— Peter
Oppenheimer

 At the bottom of the modern man there is always a great thirst for
self-forgetfulness, self-distraction....and therefore he turns away from
all these problems and abysses which might recall to him his own
nothingness.... — Henri F. Amiel

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Nothing/Emptiness

 God dwells in the nothing-at-all that was prior to nothing....

 —Meister Echhart

 The more that holy men advance in contemplation, the more they despise
what they are, and know themselves to be nothing, or next to nothing....

 —Gregory the Great

 Power is emptiness and nothingness, as all definitions of your self
melt away, and you neither begin nor end....

 —Maya Sarada Devi

 We maintain, and it is the evident truth, that the Supreme is
everywhere and yet nowhere....It is precisely because there is nothing
within the One that all things are from it....

 —Plotinus

 Put three grains of sand inside a vast cathedral, and the cathedral
will be more closely packed with sand than space is with stars....	—
Janies Jeans

 The grace of God supplies the void....

 —Francis de Sales

 Brahma is the Void, the Ancient Void of the spirit....	— The
Upanishads

 Positively, the best thing a man can do is nothing, and, next to that,
perhaps, good works....	— Charles Lamb

 He is nowhere who is everywhere....

 —Seneca

 The Hebrew word “I” consists of the same letters as the word for
“nothing.”...	— Anonymous

 I dissolved into the Emptiness, and discovered it was filled with
Love....

 —Dom Bede Griffiths

 335  ♦?	 Nothing/Emptiness

 Great things can be reduced to small things, and small things can be
reduced to nothing....	— Chinese proverb

 Sitting quietly, doing nothing, everything is achieved....	— Zen
saying

 All matter is created out of some imperceptible
substratum....nothingness, unimaginable and undetectable. But it is a
peculiar form of nothingness out of which all matter is created....

 —Paul Dirac

 Nothingness is the building blocks of the universe....	— J. A.
Wheeler

 Anytime you are willing to experience the void it is available....

 —Ken Wilber

 Everything is emptiness and form is condensed emptiness....

 —Albert Einstein

 Form is emptiness and emptiness is form....	— Shunryu Suzuki

 I have noticed that when one paints one should think of nothing:
everything then comes better....

 —Raphael

 This is real liberation: to know that you are nothing. All your
knowledge, including yourself, is liquidated—then you are
liberated....	— Nisargadatta

 Things are entirely what they appear to be—and behind them....there
is nothing....	— Jean Paul Sartre

 The real is empty: and the empty is real....	— Tao saying

 Emptiness is most powerful. It is all pervading. When the mind becomes
still, you experience that emptiness within you. Empty yourself and
realize the truth....	— Papa Ramdas

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Old Age

 &

 Old Age

 T

 he dead might as well try to speakto the living as the old to the

 young....	 —Willa Cather

 We grow old as soon as we cease to love and trust....

 —Louise H. de Choiseul

 Our true age can be determined by the ways in which we allow ourselves
to play....	 —Louis Walsh

 The worst thing about being seventy- five years old is being treated as
a seventy-five-year-old....

 —Norman  Cousins

 Futility, pessimism, frustration, living in the past, are not only
characteristic of “old age”; they contribute to it....

 —Maxwell Maltz

 In accepting aging, we need to accept death....	 —Annie Dorsey

 Many blessings do the advancing years bring with them....	 —Horace

 Nothing is more futile than a frantic clinging to life beyond its
natural span....	 —Alice H. Rice

 The brain is the organ of longevity....

 —George A. Sacher

 We have aspects of ourselves hidden deep within, waiting to blossom in
our later years....	 —Ken Dychtwald

 Up to one’s last breath, one may retain the simple joys of childhood,
the poetic ecstasies of the young man, the enthusiasms of maturity.
Right to the end, one may intoxicate one’s spirit with flowers, with
beauty and with smiles....	 —Eliphas Levi

 336  ♦?	 Old	Age

 Old age is not a disease—it is strengthand survivorship, triumph over
allkinds of vicissitudes and disappoint-ments, trials and illnesses....

 —Maggie Kuhn

 It gives me great pleasure to conversewith the aged. They have been
over theroad that all of us travel and knowwhere it is rough and
difficult andwhere it is level and easy....  —Plato

 Honor age; even an old, blind man maylead you to a rainbow....

 —American Indian saying

 The great secret of all old people is thatyou really haven’t changed
in seventyor eighty years. Your body changes, butyou don’t change at
all, and that, ofcourse, causes great confusion....

 —Doris Lessing

 The objective is to live a full life, notjust a long one. Survival into
old agerequires only good luck, whereas livingenough demands
character....

 —Seneca

 We grow old more through indolencethan through age....

 —Christina of Sweden

 Youth is so full of doubts and fears andneeds that harass and worry
constantly,but which happily largely disappearwith the passing years....

 —Charles F. Potter

 Growing old should be a rich sum-mation of experience, not a decay....

 —Constance Warren

 We age, not by years, but by events andour emotional reactions to
them....

 —Arnold A. Hutschnecker

 A man is not old until regrets take the

 place of dreams....	 —John Barrymore

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Old Age 	♦?	 3

 Old as I am in age, I have no feeling that I have ceased to grow
inwardly or that my growth will stop at the dissolution of my flesh....

 —Mohandas Gandhi

 When a man acts wisely, he grows old slowly. When he acts unwisely, he
grows older and older every day and in every way....	— Fred Van
Amburgh

 Old age is not a time of life. It is a condition of the body. It is not
time that ages the body, it is abuse that does....	— Herbert M.
Shelton

 Old age is the climbing of a mountain. The higher you get, the more
tired and breathless you become. But your view becomes much more
extensive....

 —Ingmar Bergman

 To know how to grow old is a masterpiece of wisdom, and one of the most
difficult chapters in the great art of living....	— Henri F. Amiel

 Age does not depend upon years, but upon temperament and health. Some
men are born old and some men grow so....	— Tryon Edwards

 Thoughts of death pile up to an astonishing degree as the years
increase. Willy-nilly, the aging person prepares himself for death. That
is why I think that nature herself is already preparing for the end....
— Carl Jung

 To me, old age is always fifteen years older than I am....

 —Bernard M. Baruch

 Each part of life has its own pleasures. Each has its own abundant
harvest, to be garnered in season. We may grow old in body, but we need
never grow old in mind and spirit....No one is as old as to think he
cannot live one more year....	— Cicero

 7  ♦?	 Old	Age

 He who would pass his reclining years with honor and comfort, should,
when young, consider that he may one day become old, and remember when
he is old that he has once been young....

 —Joseph Addison

 Some people never seem to grow old. Always active in thought, always
ready to adopt new ideas, they are never chargeable to fogeyism.
Satisfied, yet ever dissatisfied, settled, yet ever unsettled, they
always enjoy the best of what is, and are the first to find the best of
what will be....

 —William Shakespeare

 Young souls look for happiness, older ones for peace, calm, and
equilibrium....	— Paul Brunton

 If wrinkles must be written upon our brows, let them not be written
upon the heart. The spirit should not grow old....	— James Garfield

 Too many of us grow old before we grow up....	-— Sonya Friedman

 When one finds company in himself and his pursuits he cannot feel old,
no matter what his years may be....

 —Amos B. Alcott

 The older men grow the more they realize that it is only by putting the
focus of their activities in some movement or activity greater than
their individual ego, that they can attain peace and security in old
age....

 —Walter B. Wolf

 Those who love deeply never grow old; they might die of old age, but
they die young....	 —Arthur	W.	Pinero

 A graceful and honorable old age is the childhood of immortality....
— Pindar

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Senility is not confined to old
age....you do not have to be old; you simply have to have a rigid
mind....

 —Eknath Easwaran

 As for old age, embrace it and love it....The gradually declining years
are among the sweetest in a man’s life....

 —Seneca

 To resist the frigidity of old age one must combine the body, mind and
the heart. And to keep these in parallel vigor one must exercise, study
and love....	— Charles de Bonstetten

 If you have peace of mind, contentment, old age is no unbearable
burden. Without that, both youth and age are painful....	— Sophocles

 Youth is the age to receive instruction, middle age to make use of it,
and old age to impart it to others....

 —Pythagoras

 Wisdom is found in the old, and discretion comes with great age....

 —Old Testament

 Knowledge is a comfortable and necessary retreat and shelter for us in
advanced age, and if we do not plant it while young, it will give us no
shade when we grow old....

 —Philip D. Stanhope

 For the ignorant, old age is winter; for the learned, old age is the
harvest....

 —Yiddish saying

 Nothing is inherently and invincibly young except spirit. And spirit
can enter a human being perhaps better in the quiet of old age and dwell
there more undisturbed than in the turmoil of adventure....	— George
Santayana

 It is a rare and difficult attainment to grow old gracefully and
happily....

 —Lydia Child

 Don’t be ashamed of your grey hair! Wear it proudly, like a flag. You
are fortunate, in a world of vicissitudes, to have lived long enough to
wear it....Grow old eagerly, triumphantly....

 —William L. Phelps

 It is magnificent to grow old, if one keeps young....	— Harry E.
Fosdick

 Anyone who keeps the ability to see beauty never grows old....

 —Franz Kafka

 The spiritual eyesight improves as the physical eyesight declines....
— Plato

 Don’t complain about growing old- many people don’t have that
privilege....	— Earl Warren

 For the man who has lived for the body, old age is decay; for the man
who has lived for the spirit it is an apotheosis (exaltation)....	—
Jean Delay

 No wise man ever wished to be younger....	— Jonathan Swift

 We grow neither better or worse as we get old, but more like
ourselves....

 —May L. Becker

 At sixty a man has passed most of the reefs and whirlpools. Excepting
only death, he has no enemies left to meet....that man has awakened to a
new youth....	— George Luks

 To live long it is necessary to live slowly....	— Cicero

 Grow old with me! The best is yet to be....	— Robert Browning

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Old Age

 You don’t get old from living a particular number of years: you get
old because you have deserted your ideals. Years wrinkle your skin,
renouncing your ideals wrinkles your soul. Worry, doubt, fear and
despair are the enemies which slowly bring us down to the ground and
turn us to dust before we die....	— Douglas MacArthur

 I used to think that eighty was a very old age, but now that I am
ninety-one I don’t think so anymore. There are times I feel like a
boy. As long as you are able to admire and to love, you are young....
— Pablo Casals

 Old age is the most unexpected of all things that happens to a man....

 —Leo  Tolstoy

 That man never grows old who keeps a child in his heart....

 —Richard Steele

 Neurosis is always linked with an inability to evolve. The adult who
cannot accept growing old, or the old person who cannot accept his old
age, or accepts it grudgingly, ‘because he’s got to,’ is in the
same difficulty, blocked in his evolution against the stream of life....
— Paul Toumier

 We are not limited by our old age; we are liberated by it....	— Stu
Mittleman

 The older I grow, the more apt I am to doubt my own judgement and to
pay more respect to the judgement of others....	— Benjamin Franklin

 Let your old age be childlike, and your childhood like old age; that
is, so that neither may your wisdom be with pride, nor your humility
without wisdom....	— Augustine

 339 *	Old Age

 A  man is getting old when he walks around a puddle instead of through
it....	— R. C. Ferguson

 Enjoy the seasons of life....Each season of life is wonderful if you
have learned the lessons of the season before. It is only when you go on
with lessons unlearned that you wish for a return....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 No matter how old you get, if you can keep the desire to be creative,
you’re keeping the manchild alive....

 —John Cassavetes

 A man is always startled when he hears himself seriously called an old
man for the first time....	— Oliver W. Holmes

 So long as you are learning, you are not growing old. It’s when a man
stops learning that he begins to grow old....

 —Joseph Hergesheimer

 Old age can be the greatest time of your life....	— Napoleon Hill

 Some men are born old, and some never seem so. If we keep well and
cheerful we are always young, and at last die in youth, even when years
would count us old....	— Tryon Edwards

 In your old age you will complete for the glory of God the tower of
your soul that you began to build in the golden days of your youth....
— Mother Teresa

 The ignorant think less clearly as they age, the wise more clearly as
they grow older....	— The Talmud

 There is no finer or more fitting way to spend time during the evening
years of life than turning the mind toward reflection and then stilling
it in the Silence....	— Paul Brunton

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Oneness

 &

  Oneness 

 T

 he whole universe is one whole;there is interaction between all

 things, but not determinism....

 —Plotinus

 If the doors of perception were cleansed, everything would appear to
man as it is, infinite....

 —William Blake

 Oneness is experienced from within. Oneness lives within....

 —Iris Belhayes

 Seeing difference is ignorance. We are all one....	 —Sankara

 There are no others	

 —Ramana Maharshi

 For him who sees him-Self in every self, in everything, there is no
longer left any perplexity, doubt, sorrow, fear....	 —The Upanishads

 There does not exist ‘another’ except the one pure, formless
consciousness....

 —Yoga Vasistha

 A single Spirit fills infinity. It is that of God, whom nothing limits
or divides, who is everywhere entire and nowhere confined....	
—Eliphas Levi

 There is no boundary between subject and object, self and no-self, seer
and seen....the subject and object always turn out to be one....	 —Ken
Wilber

 Nothing is born, nothing is destroyed. Away with your dualism, your
likes and dislikes. Every single thing is just One Mind....	 —Huang Po

 0	  ♦?	 Oneness

 ?   —	

 In the deeper reality beyond space and

 time, we may be all members of one

 body....	 —James Jeans

 All things are connected like to blood that connects us all. Man did
not weave the web of life, he is merely a strand in it....	 —Chief
Seattle

 When through concentration (drawing to a center) we have brought our
forces into one point of power, we have contacted God in silence, we are
one with him, and hence one with all power....	 —Baird Spalding

 Nothing less than becoming one with the universe will suffice....

 —Morihei Uyeshisba

 Everything in the universe is connected, everything is osmosis. You
cannot separate any part from the whole; interdependence rules the
cosmic order....  —Taisen Deshimaru

 1	  am part of all that I have met....

 —Homer

 Life and death are one, even as the river and the sea are one....

 -—Kahlil Gibran

 When man is at one, God is at one....

 —The Zohar

 All life is one. The world is one home. All are members of one human
family. All creation is an organic whole. No man is independent of this
whole. Man makes himself miserable by separating himself from others.
Separation is death. Unity is eternal life....

 —Sivananda

 The True doctrine of omnipresence is that God reappears with all His
parts in every moss and cobweb....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Oneness	 *341 	*	Oneness

 	 * God is an artist par excellence. He has painted the picturesque
universe on the screen of His own immutable and glowing Spirit. So He is
the painter and the painted....	— Papa Ramdas

 When the oneness of the totality of things is not recognized, then
ignorance as well as particularization arises....	— Ashvaghosa

 We are already one. But we imagine that we are not. And what we have to
recover is our original unity. What we have to be is what we are....

 —Thomas Merton

 I see God in everything....I recognize my oneness with all mankind and
my oneness with God....	— Peace Pilgrim

 The whole is One....I guard the original One, and rest in harmony with
externals....	— Chuang Tse

 He drew a circle that shut me out— heretic, rebel, a thing to flout.
But love and I had the wit to win: we drew a circle and took them in....

 —Edwin Markin

 If you would find the highest, the fullest, and the richest
life....then do away with the sense of separativeness of your life from
the life of God. Hold to the thought of your oneness....

 -—Ralph W. Trine

 Survival is the second law of life. The first is that we are all
one....

 —Joseph Campbell

 All are really one....	— Black Elk

 We are members of one great body....

 —Seneca

 There is one truth and one goodness penetrating and governing all
things....

 —Giordano Bruno

 In order to become conscious of the presence of abundance you need only
become conscious of the presence of God. You need only become conscious
of the Oneness of God. You have to know that Cause and Effect is One....

 —James B. Schafer

 It is one thing to preach oneness, but if it is not fully understood
and lived, then what is preached becomes an empty gesture....	— David
Manners

 All humanity is one undivided and indivisible family....

 —Mohandas Gandhi

 The one is here, there and everywhere; there is not a pin-hole where
this one will not be found....	— Nityananda

 All life is one. Differences are superficial. They are only in the
outer; they are only in the body. But one great common Consciousness
dwells as the Reality within all names and forms, with all creatures,
not only all human beings, in all creatures....

 —Ramanujan

 When we try to pick out anything by itself, we find it hitched to
everything else in the universe....	— John Muir

 Not on my authority, but on that of truth, it is wise for you to accept
the fact that all things are one....

 —Heraclitus

 There is no other side. There are only levels of apprehension, a single
incomprehensibly vast universe....

 —Arthur Ford

 All creatures seek after unity; all multiplicity struggles toward
it—the universal aim of all life is always this unity....	— Johannes
Tauler

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Oneness	*	342	*	Oneness

 When, to a man who understands, the Self has become all things, what
sorrow, what trouble can there be to him who once beheld that
oneness....

 —The Upanishads

 Do you think that God is only in your heart? You should be able to
recognize Him in every garden, in every forest, in every house, and in
every person....

 —Shems Tabriez

 When a person abstains from doing wrong to any creature, in thought,
word, or deed, he is said to attain to the state of oneness with God....

 —Mahabharata

 God is one. And he that is one is nameless; for he does not need a
name, since he is alone....All things have been derived from One....	—
Hermes

 There is inherent in man a longing and tendency towards wholeness, and
only when this longing is stilled is his negative state of tension wiped
out and neutralized....	— Gerhard Adler

 Realize that each soul is related to you. When you recognize that
everyone is part of you, you will find you cannot withdraw from
another....

 -—Elsie Morgan

 All is One....

 —Xenophanes

 All souls are one. Each is a spark of the original soul, and this soul
is inherent in all souls....	— Hasidic saying

 The drop poured into the ocean is the ocean....All is one and one is
all in all....

 —Meister Eckhart

 The universe in its entirety is nothing but one individual being....

 —Maimonides

 One in All. All in One—if only this is realized. No more worry about
your not being perfect....	— Seng-ts’an

 There is only one power that is active in every one of us and that is
God....It is the one power that pervades the whole universe that is
responsible for all activities and movements in the universe....	—
Papa Ramdas

 It does not matter what name you attach to it, but your consciousness
must ascend to the point through which you view the universe with your
God-centered nature. The feeling accompanying this experience is that of
complete oneness with the Universal Whole. One merges into a euphoria of
absolute unity with all life....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 You are the prison-house, you are the prisoner and you are the one who
imprisons yourself.... — Vimala Thakar

 That which exists is one; sages call it by various names....	— Vedic
saying

 What the principle of oneness teaches us is that no matter how hard we
try to act otherwise, we are all equals....

 —Anonymous

 The chain which makes us one, is to honor the one God....	— Philo

 If a man sees himself become one with the One, he has in himself a
likeness of the One, and if he passes out of himself, as an image to its
archetype, he has reached the end of his journey....

 —Plotinus

 Unity is convertible with eternity, for there cannot be more than one
Eternal God....	— Nicholas of Cusa

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Oneness	*	3

 All life is one—God is on our side....

 —Elbert Hubbard

 If one contemplates the things in mystical meditation, everything is
revealed as one....	 —The Zohar

 No man lives unto himself; for every living thing is bound by cords to
every other living thing....

 —The Aquarian Gospel

 In reality there are not two. There is only One....	 —Ramakrishna

 We go on believing we are separate. We are not—not even for a single
moment. Drop the idea of separation—and the fear of death disappears.
If you become one with the whole, you will live forever. You will go
beyond birth and death....	 —Rajneesh

 See all things in one....

 —Jeremy Taylor

 The One is invisible: It cannot be seen. The One is inaudible: It
cannot be grasped. The One is Inapprehensible: It cannot be grasped....	
—Lao-tzu

 The heavens and the heavens of heavens together with the depths of the
earth constitute one unit, one world, one being....	 —Abraham Kook

 One and God make a majority....

 —Frederick Douglass

 No man is an island, entire of itself; every man is a piece of the
continent, a part of the main....	 —John Donne

 Keep cool, it will be all one a hundred years hence....  —Ralph W.
Emerson

 A  mysterious bond of brotherhood makes all men one....

 —Thomas Carlyle

 3  ♦?	 Oneness

 Through drying one person’s tears you are drying the whole world’s
tears. In making one lame person walk, you are helping every lame person
throughout the universe....because the Group is never separated, and
always works through the contribution of each member to the whole....	
—Ronald Beesley

 It’s fearful to know we’re connected to everything in the universe,
because we’re responsible....

 —Glenda Taylor

 The drop of water is only weak when it is removed from the ocean;
replace it and it is as powerful as the ocean....If a portion of one
unit excludes itself from the whole, it makes no difference to Principal
Being, but it makes a vast difference to the unit. The ocean is not
conscious of the removal of a drop of water, but the drop is very
conscious of the ocean when it is returned....

 —Baird Spalding

 I believe that if one man gains spiritually the whole world gains with
him and, if one falls, the whole world falls to that extent...

 —Mohandas Gandhi

 The universe is a single life comprising one substance and one soul....

 —Marcus Aurelius

 This is one of the most important factors in the development of man,
the recognition—profound and complete recognition—of the law of
universal unity and coherence....

 —Mabel Collins

 There is no man alone, because every man is a microcosm, and carries
the whole world about him....

 —Thomas Browne

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Oneness	*	3

 As ridiculous as it seems for the lone wave to see itself as separate
from the ocean, is it not equally ridiculous for the individual to close
his eyes to his true connection to the Infinite....

 —Meredith L. Young

 The moment a person realizes his oneness with the Infinite Spirit he
recognizes himself as a spiritual being, and no longer a physical,
material being....	— Ralph W. Trine

 Look upon all and everything as images of One, namely God....

 —Sathya Sai Baba

 He who in his own soul perceives the Supreme Soul in all beings, and
acquires equanimity towards all of them, attains the highest bliss....

 —Manu

  Order 

 O

 rder is never observed; It is disor-der that attracts attention be-

 cause it is awkward and intrusive....

 —Eliphas Levi

 Confusion is a word we have invented for an order which is not....

 —Henry Miller

 The only way whereby you can replace disorder with order is for you to
become “at-one” in consciousness with the Divine Order....

 —James B. Schafer

 There is no chance, and no anarchy in the universe. All is system and
gradation. Every god is there sitting in his sphere....	— Ralph W.
Emerson

 4 *	Order

 A secret force is at work trying to carry out a plan—a moral,
spiritual plan to bring order out of the seeming chaos of creation....
— Paramahansa Yogananda

 Order is heaven’s first law....

 —Alexander Pope

 The art of progress is to preserve order amid change and to preserve
change amid order.... — Alfred N. Whitehead

 Nature goes her own way, and all that to us seems an exception is
really according to order....

 —Johann W. Goethe

 Order means light and peace, inward liberty and free command over
one’s self; order is power....

 —Henri F. Amiel

 Though we can’t always see it at the time, if we look upon events
with some perspective, we see things always happen for our best
interests. We are being guided in a way better than we know
ourselves....	— Satchidananda

 The law and order which we find in the universe are most easily
described and....explained in the language of idealism....	— James
Jeans

 I believe in God....who reveals Himself in the orderly harmony of the
universe....	— Albert Einstein

 You are a part of the universe, no less than the stars and the trees,
and you have a right to be here. And whether it is clear to you or not,
no doubt the universe is unfolding as it should....

 —Desiderata

 Everything that happens happens as it should, and if you observe
carefully, you will find this to be so....

 —Marcus Aurelius

                    shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Order 	 ♦? 	 3

 Every man is where he is by the law of his being; the thoughts which he
has built into his character have brought him there, and in the
arrangement of his life there is no element of chance....

 —James Allen

 Chance is a word void of sense; nothing can exist without cause....	—
Voltaire

 Good order is the foundation of all things....	— Edmund Burke

 Nothing happens at random, but everything from reason and necessity....

 —Leucippus

 To a sensible man, there is no such thing as chance....	— Ludwig
Tieck

 There is nothing that happens by chance in our universe. Everything
unfolds according to higher laws— everything is regulated by divine
order....	 -—Peace Pilgrim

 Order is the sanity of the mind, the health of the body, the peace of
the city, the security of the state. As the beams to a house, as the
bones to a body, so is order to all things....

 —Robert Southey

 Any power capable of creating the world and overseeing the orderly
process of evolution must know exactly where it is going and how it
intends to get there. Its course cannot possibily be altered by any one
of the finite minds it has created....	— U. S. Anderson

 It is a rare life that remains orderly even in private.... — Michel
Montaigne

 In the presence of eternal order, disorder is essentially transitory.
In the presence of absolute order, which is the will of God, disorder is
only relative....

 —Eliphas Levi

  5  ♦?	 Pain 

 ? 	

 Beauty is absent where order is

 lacking....	— Philo

 What comfort, what strength, what economy there is in order....To know
where one is going and what one wishes—this is order; to keep one’s
word and one’s engagements—again order....to discipline one’s
habits, one’s efforts, one’s wishes; to organize one’s life, to
distribute one’s time....all this belongs to and is included in the
word order....	— -Henri F. Amiel

 The world is not to be put in order, the world is order incarnate. It
is for us to put ourselves in unison with this order....	— Henry
Miller

 Chaos demands to be recognized and experienced before letting itself be
converted into a new order....

 —Hermann Hesse

 Order is intelligent, well-organized motion....	— Anonymous

 m

  Pain 

 D

 o not consider painful what isgood for you....	— Euripides

 The cup of pain, though it burns yourlips, has been fashioned from the
claywhich the Potter has moistened withhis own sacred tears....

 —Arabian saying

 Pain is a blessing in disguise. Pain is aneye-opener. Pain is your
silent teacher.Pain will turn your mind toward God....

 —Sivananda

 What annoyances are more painful than those of which we cannot
complain?...	— Marquis de Custine

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Pain

 Sometimes pain and illness is notmeant to be removed. You
can’tsecond-guess God. Rather than prayingfor it to go away, it’s
often wiser to praythat you learn as much from it as youpossibly can....
— Stephen Levine

 Pain is your teacher; pain is there for areason...	— Satchidananda

 Nothing happens to any man which heis not formed by nature to bear....

 —Marcus Aurelius

 There is no pain like a bleeding heart....

 —Jane C. Turell

 In intense pain, a point is reachedwhere it is indistinguishable from
itsopposite, pleasure. This is indeed so,but a few have the heroism or
thestrength to suffer to such a far point....

 —Mabel Collins

 The horror of pain is a rather lowinstruct and....if I think of
humanbeings I’ve known and of my ownlife....I can’t recall any case
of painwhich didn’t on the whole, enrichlife....	— Malcolm
Muggeridge

 Pain is no longer pain when it is past....

 —Margaret Preston

 God whispers to us in our pleasures,speaks in our conscience, but
shouts inour pains: it is a megaphone to rousethe deaf world....	—C. 
S. Lewis

 Though we may not always be able toavoid pain, we can choose how muchwe
suffer....	— Judy Tatelbaum

 Illness is the doctor to whom we pay

 most heed: to kindness, to knowledgewe make promises only: pain
weobey....	— Marcel Proust

 Pain

 The means by which certain pleasures are gained brings pains many times
greater than the pleasures....

 —Epicurus

 With the help of a thorn in my foot, I spring higher than anyone with
sound feet....	— Soren Kierkegaard

 So long as you can sweeten another’s pain, life is not in vain....
— Helen Keller

 Much of your pain is self-chosen. It is the bitter potion by which the
physician within you heals your sick self....	— Kahlil Gibran

 Pain interferes with making plans by undermining interest in anything
that’s not immediate....

 —Marvin Minsky

 The purpose of pain is not to punish but to teach....	— Elinor
MacDonald

 We are a feelingless people. If we could really feel, the pain would be
so great that we would stop all the suffering....

 —Julian Beck

 Pain is only triggered by another person when there is already pain
within you....	— Sanaya Roman

 The whole purpose of letting pain be pain is precisely this: to let go
of pain. By entering into it, we see that we are strong enough and
capable enough to move through it. We find out that it ultimately has a
gift for us....

 —Matthew Fox

 Every pain in man is the result of some fear of lack, some belief in
limitation. God can be the author only of good. Man suffers through his
ignorance of his Oneness with God....	— Craig Carter

 ♦?  346  ♦?

 w  —

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Pain	*	3

 Do not try to drive pain away by pretending it is not real. If you seek
serenity in oneness, pain will vanish of its own accord....	— Seng
ts'an

 When you cling to pain you only succeed in pouring more salt on the
wound....	— Anonymous

 People have a need to feel their pain. Very often pain is the beginning
of a great deal of awareness. As an energy center it awakens
consciousness....

 —Arnold Mindell

 Miseries, though belonging to the world of dreams, are of a certainty
painful, and do not vanish until we cease dreaming....

 —Srimad Bhagavatam

 There is no pain quite like that of a broken heart. But a broken heart
is an open heart. When we allow ourselves to be broken, a gentle
transformation takes place....	— Douglas Bloch

 Pain can be a doorway that takes us into the attic of spiritual
inspiration....

 —Richard Moss

 Life breaks us all, and we heal stronger in the broken places....

 —Friedrich W. Nietzsche

 The pangs of pain, of failure, in this mortal lot, are the birth-throes
of transition to better things. We are separated for a time by the
indifference of space and our blindness which particularizes and
isolates us. But in us is a longing for unity.... — John E. Boodin

 Seek not outside yourself, for all pain comes simply from a futile
search for what you want, insisting where it must be found....	— A
Course In Miracles

 7  ♦?	 Pain

 There will be pain in your spiritual growth until you will to do
God’s will and no longer need to be pushed into it....	— Peace
Pilgrim

 Pain confers spiritual insight, a beauty of outlook, a philosophy of
life....

 —Louis E. Bisch

 When the body is in pain, a distorted area of awareness is crying out
to the rest of awareness for help....

 —Deepak Chopra

 One often learns more from ten days of agony than from ten years of
contentment....	-— Merle Shain

 It is ironic that man should feel such a painful void inside of himself
when he lives in a world of so many things which fill the air with
sound, light and smog, but which apparently cannot fill the heart of
men....	— John Powell

 Pain is the outcome of sin....

 —Gautama Buddha

 If we want to be without any sort of pain, we must first ascertain the
cause of pain. A little consideration will make it clear to us that the
root cause of all sorrow is the mistaken identification of the Self with
the body....

 —Chandrasekhara Bharati

 One of the greatest pains to human nature is the pain of a new idea....

 —Walter Bagehot

 When the mind is in tune with God, we

 shall be above the pains of the world	

 —Papa Ramdas

 Change is painful when we attach our happiness to outer
circumstances....

 —Jesse Jennings

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Pain	*	c

 Even though he causes pain to his patient by applying certain remedies,
the physician is not taken to be the cause of the suffering because in
the final analysis he has produced the good that was sought after....

 —Mrigendra Agama

 The world is so constructed that, if you wish to enjoy its pleasures,
you must also endure its pains. Whether you like it or not, you cannot
have one without the other....	— Brahmananda

 The mass of men lead lives of quiet desperation....	— Henry D.
Thoreau

 No man desires to see the light which illumines the spaceless soul
until pain and sorrow and despair have driven him away from the life of
ordinary humanity. First he wears out pleasure; then he wears out
pain—till, at last, his eyes become incapable of tears....

 —Mabel Collins

 The cure for pain is in the pain....

 —Rumi

 The pain and suffering that comes to us has a purpose in our lives—it
is trying to teach us something. We should look for its lesson....	—
Peace Pilgrim

 Pain is neither intolerable nor everlasting....It is the power of the
soul to maintain its own serenity....

 —David Grayson

 Man suffers from pain and calls it evil, yet in reality it may be
growing pains of the Spirit—the changing of the body into a finer and
more spiritual substance....	— Henry T. Hamblin

 Pain is telling us something is wrong, that we need to behave
differently, that what hurts must be fixed....

 —Ernie Larson

 8  *   Past

 Your pain is the breaking of the shell that encloses your
understanding....

 —Kahlil Gibran

 There are only two ways to live. If a man will not listen to his own
inner wisdom, he will have to listen to his own inner pain. He can
choose either teacher....	— Vernon Howard

 Illness does not just happen to people with no reason. Often it is a
message that a change is needed on some level of your life. And to
resolve the illness, it may be necessary to understand and respond to
that message....	— Michael Volen

 Pain is not, like joy, an end in itself. It is often the result of
mistakes, conscious or unconscious, and carries with it
self-condemnation, regret, remorse....	— Alice H. Rice

 If you are pained by any external thing, it is not this thing that
disturbs you, but your own judgement about it. It is in your power to
erase this judgement now. If anything in your own nature gives you pain,
you are who hinders you from correcting your opinion....

 —Marcus Aurelius

 With proper understanding, the pain and the pleasure are the same. Both
are lessons. In such a light, pain becomes pain no more. One who
understands the world in the proper way will see the pain is there as a
necessity, something to be risen above....	— Satchidananda

 &

  Past 

 T

 here is nothing you can do aboutthe past except forget it. There is a

 great deal, however, that you can doabout the present and the
future....

 -—Joel Goldsmith

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890    Past 

 Dwell not on the past. Use it to illustrate a point, then leave it
behind. Nothing really matters except what you do now in this instant of
time....

 —Eileen Caddy

 Anyone who limits her vision to memories of yesterday is already
dead....	— Lillie Langtry

 In the carriages of the past you can’t go anywhere....	— Maksim
Gorky

 The past and the unknown do not meet at any point; they cannot be
brought together by any act whatsoever; there is no bridge to cross over
nor a path that leads to it....	— J. Krishnamurti

 Every journey into the past is complicated by delusions, false
memories, false naming of real events....

 —Adrienne Rich

 Make it a rule of life never to regret and never to look back. Regret
is an appalling waste of energy; you can’t build on it; it’s only
good for wallowing in....	— Katherine Mansfield

 Finish every day and be done with it. You have done what you could.
Some blunders and absurdities no doubt crept in; forget them as soon as
you can....	— Ralph W. Emerson

 What is done, is done....

 —William Shakespeare

 Too many people live with mistakes they’ve made in their pasts. They
stay locked in the same unsatisfying jobs, marriages, friendships and
habits they developed at a time when they might not have had an idea
what was best for them....	— Lois Wolfe Morgan

 Rather than cursing the past, bless it....

 —Wayne Dyer

  Past 

 	

 Of all sad words of tongue or pen themost saddest are: “What might
havebeen.”...	— Anonymous

 It is when a man begins to live in thepast, the good old days, that the
boatbegins to drift downstream, eventuallycoming to rest in stagnant
waters....

 —Frank Case

 We should have no regrets. We shouldnever look back. The past is
finished.There is nothing to be gained by goingover it....	— Rebecca
Beard

 Why wish for the privilege of livingyour past life again? You begin a
newone eveiy morning.... — Robert Quillen

 God has no power over the past exceptto cover it with oblivion....

 —Pliny the Elder

 Let the lessons of life’s errors sink in,but time spent in vain
regret is onehundred percent wasted. To regret is toresurrect your
mistakes. Any man isliable to make mistakes, but only a sillyman will
try to resurrect them....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 The past is present in the future....

 —Louis L. Mann

 Guilt and sin are only a fear of thepast....	— Charles P. Curtis

 Regrets are caused by a misuse ofmemory....The man who broods overthe
past can never master thedifficulties of today. Every wise manlearns to
forget. He does not allowhimself to become a slave to hismemory....	—
Herbert Casson

 The present contains nothing morethan the past, and what is found in
theeffect was already in the cause....

 —Henri Bergson

 ♦?  349  ♦?

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Past	* 	j

 No man having put his hand to the plow and looking back is fit for the
kingdom of heaven....	— Jesus

 The past is only yesterday’s dream....

 —Tom Seeley

 Let us not raise the ghost of the past....

 —Papa Ramdas

 The present is the living sum-total of the whole Past....	— Thomas
Carlyle

 The past is a bucket of ashes....

 —Carl Sandburg

 Nothing changes more constantly than the past; for the past that
influences our lives does not consist of what actually happened but of
what men believe happened....

 —Gerald W. Johnson

 That deed is not well done that one regrets when it is done....

 —Gautama Buddha

 Those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it....

 —George Santayana

 You can never plan the future by the past....	— Edmund Burke

 A good memory is one trained to forget the trivial....	-— Clifton
Fadiman

 Even God cannot change the past....

 —Agathon

 With God nothing is imposssible, God can change even the past....

 —Sevakram

 Look at the past like a bullet. Once it’s fired it’s finished....
— Catherine Bauby

 We crucify ourselves between two thieves: regret for yesterday and fear
of tomorrow....	— Fulton Oursler

 Patience

  Patience 

 H

 ow poor are they that have notpatience! What wound did ever

 heal but by degrees?...

 —William Shakespeare

 Flowers do not force their way with great strife. Flowers open to
perfection slowly in the sun....Don’t be in a hurry about spiritual
matters. Go step by step, and be very sure....	— White Eagle

 Never think that God’s delays are God’s denials. Hold on; hold
fast; hold out. Patience is genius.... — Comte de Buffon

 The first proof of a well-ordered mind is to be able to pause and
linger with itself....	— Seneca

 In any contest between power and patience, bet on patience....

 —Anonymous

 It is necessary to work patiently with others, all the time....If you
have patience with people, they will slowly change....	— Chogyam
Trungpa

 Patience is a bitter plant but its fruit is always sweet....	—
Persian saying

 There is no way to push the river; equally you cannot hasten the
harvest....	 —Ralph Blum

 The virtue of patience is the one which most assures us of
perfection....

 —Francis de Sales

 The power of patience, which has been called the grace of God, lies
largely in the fact that it usually wins where force fails....	— Alice
H. Rice

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Patience	*	351 	♦?	 Patience

 Patience is a particular requirement. Without it you can destroy in an
hour what it might take you weeks to repair....	— Charlie W. Shedd

 All human errors are impatience....

 —Franz Kafha

 Patience conquers everything in the end....	— Paramananda

 Perhaps there is only one cardinal sin: impatience. Because of
impatience we were driven out of Paradise, because of impatience we
cannot return....

 — W. H. Auden

 Adversity borrows its sharpest sting from our impatience....	— George
Home

 We are impatient people. We want everything immediately....We don’t
know how to to wait.... — Ken Olson

 The philosophy of waiting is sustained by all the oracles of the
universe....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 There is as much difference between genuine patience and sullen
endurance, as between the smile of love, and the malicious gnashing of
the teeth....

 —William S. Plumer

 Patience and diligence, like faith, remove mountains....	— William
Penn

 There is no escape from the rule that we must do many, many little
things to accomplish even just one big thing. This gives me patience
when I need it most....	 —James	Q. DuPont

 Slow down and the thing you are chasing will come around and catch
you....	— Zen saying

 Patience is the best remedy for every trouble....	— Plautus

 We shall sooner have the fowl by hatching the egg than by smashing
it....

 —Abraham Lincoln

 Hope and patience are two sovereign remedies for all, the surest
reposals, the softest cushions to lean on in adversity....	— Robert
Burton

 One must know how to sail with a contrary wind and to tack until one
meets a wind in the right direction....

 —Fortune de Felice

 Impatience in any manner is a sign of weakness. So, to be free from it,
submission to God’s will in all things is the way....	-— Papa Ramdas

 The slower you go, the farther you will be....	— Russian proverb

 Learn to pause....or nothing worthwhile will catch up to you....	—
Doug King

 Patience is so like fortitude that she seems either her sister or her
daughter....	 —Aristotle

 Everything comes if a man will only wait....	— Tancred

 There is no great achievement that is not the result of patient working
and waiting....	-— Josiah Holland

 Patience and tenacity of purpose are assets of infinitely greater value
than cleverness. There is great strength in patiently waiting. The sun,
having set, comes up. The tide ebbs, but always flows in again....	—
Fred Van Amburgh

 With time and patience the mulberry leaf becomes a silk gown....

 —Oriental proverb

 Never cut what you can untie....

 —Joseph Joubert

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Patience

 352

 -  ‘Spf -

 Patience

 A patient man cannot be irritated even a bit. Patience helps a man in
the conquest of temper. Patience gives immense strength....	—
Sivananda

 It is not necessary for all men to be great in action. The greatest and
sublimest power is often simple patience....	— Horace Bushnell

 Everything comes in time to those who can wait....	— Francois
Rabelais

 Patience is power. Patience is not an absence of action; rather, it is
“timing”; it waits on the right time to act, for the right
principles and in the right way....

 —Fulton J. Sheen

 Stumbling is the fruit of haste....

 —Arabian saying

 When you are patient, you take the time to immerse yourself in joy of
the moment which is denied to those who hurry....	— Donald Curtis

 To go faster, you must slow down....

 —John Brunner

 Be patient toward all that is unsolved in your heart....and try to love
the questions themselves....

 —Rainer M. Rilke

 Be patient in your striving; be persistent in your expectations....

 —Anonymous

 To know how to wait is the great secret of success....	— Xavier de
Maistre

 Patience can’t be acquired overnight. It is just like building up a
muscle. Every day you need to work on it....

 —Eknath Easwaran

 Patience is a gift that God only gives to those He loves.... —
African proverb

 Only those who have the patience to do simple things perfectly will
acquire the skill to do difficult things easily....

 —Johann von Schiller

 It is because men cannot hold to patience that they fail to achieve
anything. Else there is no other reason for failure....	— Turiyananda

 We rush through life so fast that we don’t even know the flowers are
there....	— Dale Evans Rogers

 Patience and fortitude conquer all things....	— Ralph W. Emerson

 Whoever is out of patience is out of possession of his soul... —
Francis Bacon

 In America, an hour is forty minutes....

 —German proverb

 Ask too much and it shall not be given to you; knock too loudly and it
shall not be opened unto you; seek impatiently and you shall not
find....

 —Will Durant

 There is nothing so bitter, that a patient mind cannot find some solace
for it....

 —Seneca

 If I were asked what single qualification was necessary for one who has
care of children, I should say patience— patience with their tempers,
with their understandings, with their progress....

 —Francois Fenelon

 If I have ever made any valuable discoveries, it is owing more to
patient attention than to any other talent....

 —Isaac Newton

 Patience gives you the power to practice; practice gives you the power
that leads you to perfection....

 —Yogi Bhujan

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Patience 	 ♦? 	 3

 Patience strengthens the spirit, sweetens the temper, stifles anger,
extinguishes envy, subdues pride, bridles the tongue, restrains the
hand, and tramples upon temptation....

 —George Home

 Patience is but lying to and riding out the gale....	 —Henry W.
Beecher

 Patience and delay achieve more than force and rage....	 —Jean La
Fontaine

 Patience and silence go together....

 —Paramananda

 The conflict of patience is such that the vanquished is better than the
vanquisher....	 —Euripides

 He who is slow to answer has great understanding....	 —Old Testament

 All things come round to him who will but wait....	 —Henry W.
Longfellow

 Have patience with all the world, but first of all with yourself....

 —Francis de Sales

 There is no road too long to the man who advances deliberately without
undue haste; no honors too distant to the man who prepares himself for
them with patience....	 —Jean La Bruyere

 Patience is strength....

 —Anonymous

 Do you have the patience to wait until your mud settles, and the water
is clear? Can you remain unmoving till the right action arises by
itself?...

 — Lao-tzu

 You must grow in patience when you meet with great wrongs, and they
will be powerless to vex your mind....

 —Leonardo da Vinci

 3 *	Patience

 You are not defeated until you lose your patience....	 —Robert
Schuller

 True patience simply means having absolute confidence in God....

 —Anonymous

 Of all the qualities of an excellent character, patience is enough for
us....

 —Michel Montaigne

 Patience and tolerance are handmaidens. They walk down the path of
life, hand—in—hand. They are not separate entities, so to speak.
They are one....	 —FraterAchad

 Apply discipline to your thoughts when they become anxious over the
outcome of a goal. Impatience breeds anxiety, fear, discouragement and
failure. Patience creates confidence, decisiveness and a rational
outlook, which eventually leads to success....

 —Brian Adams

 Patience is passion tamed....

 —Lyman Abbott

 What is patience but an equanimity which enables you to rise superior
to the trials of life?...  —William Osier

 Our patience will achieve more than our force....	 —Edmund Burke

 A  man who is master of patience is master of everything else....

 —Lord Halifax

 Nothing great is created suddenly, any more than a bunch of grapes or a
fig. If you tell me that you desire a fig. I answer you that there must
be time. Let the tree first blossom, then bear fruit, then ripen....	
—Epictetus

 Patient waiting is often the highest way of doing God’s will....

 —Jeremy Collier

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Patience

 354

 -t*--

 Peace/Harmony

 Impatience....is one of our greatest sufferings. To realize how foolish
it is to become impatient, try turning your watch ahead, or tear a few
sheets off the calendar in your efforts to advance time....	 —James
Mangan

 To know how to wait is the great secret of success....  —Joseph M. de
Maistre

 Patience is all the strength a man needs....	 —Sathya Sai Baba

 The man who can wait indefinitely can wear down the strength of the
most belligerent opposition, for in the end a forgiving spirit disarms
an opponent, and wins his reluctant admiration....

 —Alice H. Rice

 To lose patience is to lose the battle....

 —Mohandas Gandhi

 Patience means waiting without anxiety....	 —Francis de Sales

 There are before you countless opportunities that can be built into a
big success, but it is a mistake to expect to see your corn come up the
day after you plant it....	 —Fred Va7i Amburgh

 The greater our hurry, the longer the way; the greater our patience,
the sooner we reach the goal....

 —German proverb

  Peace/Harmony 

 T

 he home is the empire! There isno peace more delightful than

 one’s own fireplace....	 —Cicero

 At the heart of the cyclone tearing the sky....is a place of central
calm....

 -—Edwin Markham

 Peace will come when each of us goes within, and realizes that we are
all equal aspects of God; then we can sit together in harmony with no
necessity to compare personal views....

 —A Spiritual Warrior

 Peace is difficult to attain for those whose mind is centered on the
body....

 —Nityananda

 Neither money, nor worldly possessions, neither science nor authority,
will bring you the sweet rest of paradise, at which you can arrive only
by the noble knowledge of the higher self....	 —Jakob Bohme

 To the peaceful a house is like a forest and to the restless even a
forest is like a crowded city. To one who is at peace, the entire world
is a peaceful forest. To one who is restless with a thousand thoughts,
it is an ocean of sorrow....

 —Yoga Vasistha

 For peace of mind, resign as general manager of the universe....

 —Larry Eisenberg

 Peace is a costly privilege—to be fought for, attained and won. It
comes only from a conquered mind....

 —Paul Brunton

 Peace comes not from doing, but from undoing; not from getting, but
from letting go....	 —Satchidananda

 Peace exists when you have nothing to prove, or stated differently,
when you have no self to prove....

 —Vernon Howard

 The conflict of opposites gives birth to harmony....	 —William Gibson

 Harmony seldom makes a headline....

 —Silas Bent

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065    Peace/Harmony 

 We should have much peace if we would not busy ourselves with the
sayings and doings of others....

 —Thomas a Kempis

 Harmony seeks nothing outside of itself. It is what ought to be; it is
the expression of right, order, law and truth; it is greater than time
and represents eternity.... — Henri F. Amiel

 If you are inwardly free from fighting, no one will be able to start a
fight with you....	— Anonymous

 Harmony means absence of conflict; it means stillness and silence,
peace and tranquility....	— Ramesh Balsekar

 Discord is rife in the outward world, but unbroken harmony holds sway
at the heart of the universe....

 —James Allen

 Undisturbed peace of mind is attained by the cultivation of
friendliness toward the happy, compassion for the unhappy, delight in
the virtuous, and indifference in the evil....	— Patanjali

 Humanity can only improve as people improve. When you have improved
your life, you can inspire those around you to want to improve their
lives. Remember that a few in harmony with God’s will are more
powerful than multitudes out of harmony....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 Like water, we are truest to our nature in repose....	— Cyril
Connolly

 A  happy person is not his own enemy, does not carry on an endless war
with his soul. We may be fiercely at odds with the wrongs of the world
around us. But inside ourselves, near the core, if we are happy, we are
at peace....

 —Lewis B. Smedes

 355 *	Peace/Harmony

 All the frictions, all the uncertainties, all the ills, the sufferings,
the fears, the forebodings, the perplexities of life come to us because
we are out of harmony with the divine purpose of things. They will
continue to come as long as we so live. Rowing against the tide is hard
and uncertain....

 —Ralph W. Trine

 What is dangerous about tranquilizers is that whatever peace of mind
they bring is packaged peace of mind. When you buy a pill and buy peace
with it, you get conditioned to cheap solutions instead of deep ones....
— Max Lemer

 In the gates of eternity the black hand and the white hand hold each
other with equal clasp....

 —Harriet Beecher Stowe

 We fluctuate long between love and hatred before we arrive at
tranquility....

 —Heloise

 He is happiest, be he king or peasant, who finds his peace at home....

 —Johann W. Goethe

 Never be in a hurry; do everything quietly and in a calm spirit. Do not
lose your inward peace for anything whatsoever, even if your whole world
seems upset....	— Francis de Sales

 What all men are after is some form, or perhaps only some formula, of
peace....

 —Joseph Conrad

 If there is to be peace it will come through being, not having....

 —Henry Miller

 That man attains peace who, abandoning all desires, moves about without
longing, without the sense of mine and without egoism....

 — Bhagavad-Gita

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Peace/Harmony

 356_

 Peace/Harmony

 The thirst for objects is the greatest enemy of peace. Desire causes
distraction of various sorts....The mind will be ever restless and
hanker after the objects. When this thirst dies, man enjoys peace....
— Sivananda

 Where there is peace and meditation, then there is neither anxiety nor
doubt....	— Francis of Assisi

 God is peace, His name is peace, and all is bound together in peace....

 —The Zohar

 When everything is in its right place within us, we ourselves are in
balance with the whole work of God....

 —Henry F. Amiel

 From the cradle to his grave a man never does a single thing which has
any first and foremost object save to secure peace of mind, spiritual
comfort, for himself....	— Mark Twain

 If you really want peace of mind and inner calm, you will get it.
Regardless of how unjustly you have been treated, or how unfair the boss
has been, or what a mean scoundrel someone has proved to be, all this
makes no difference to you when you awaken to your mental and spiritual
powers....

 —Joseph Murj)hy

 Nothing can bring you peace but yourself. Nothing can bring you peace
but the triumph of principles....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 Peace is rarely denied to the peaceful....

 —Johann von Schiller

 Slowly, painfully, I have learned that peace of mind may transform a
cottage into a spacious manor hall; the want of it can make a regal park
an imprisoning nutshell....

 —Joshua L. Liebman

 Peace is when time doesn’t matter as it passes away....	— Maria
Schell

 As long as a man thinks he can do something by himself, so long he
shall find no peace....	— Arjun

 The world is not in need of saving, it is perfect in itself—it is not
a mess to be fixed up. It is harmonious and whole, and it is our
responsibility to harmonize with it, not change it....

 —A Spiritual Warrior

 Peace is the happy, natural state of man; war, his corruption, his
disgrace....	— James Thomson

 Riches bring anxiety; wisdom gives peace of mind....	— Ibn Gabirol

 I was glad I was born, glad I suffered so, glad I did make big
blunders, glad to enter peace....	— Vivekananda

 Peace rules the day where reason rules the mind....	— Wilkie Collins

 Each one has to find his peace from within. And peace to be real must
be unaffected by outside circumstances....

 —Mohandas Gandhi

 A  happy life consists in tranquility of mind....	— Cicero

 Peace of mind is worth any price it demands....	— Gayatri Devi

 Few find inner peace but this is not because they try and fail, it is
because they do not try....When your life is governed by the divine
nature instead of the self-centered nature you have found inner
peace....	— Peace Pilgrim

 Peace is not absence of war, it is virtue, a state of mind, a
disposition for benevolence, confidence, justice....

 —Baruch Spinoza

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Peace/Harmony

 Peace cannot suddenly descend from the heavens. It can only come when
the root causes of trouble are removed....

 —Jawaharlal Nehru

 It is only after a man has rid himself of all pretense, and taken
refuge in mere unembellished existence, that he is able to attain peace
of mind....

 —Arthur Schopenhauer

 Five great enemies to peace inhabit us: avarice, ambition, envy, anger
and pride. If those enemies were to be banished, we would infallibly
enjoy perpetual peace....	— Petrarch

 I learned that it is possible for us to create light, sound and order
within us no matter what calamity may befall us in the outer world....
— Helen Keller

 Peace of mind is that mental condition in which you have accepted the
worst....

 —Lin Yutang

 When a man finds no peace within himself it is useless to seek it
elsewhere....	— Francois La Rochefoucauld

 If you only knew the peace there is in accepted sorrow....

 —Madame Guyon

 To be at one with God is to be at peace....Peace is to be found only
within, and unless one finds it there he will never find it at all.
Peace lies not in the external world. It lies within one’s own
soul....	— Ralph W. Trine

 The life of inner peace, being harmonious and without stress, is the
easiest type of existence....

 —Norman V. Peale

 Nothing contributes more to peace of mind than to have no opinions
whatever....	— Georg C. Lichtenberg

 357

 -   c sps 3  -

 Peace/Harmony

 Perfect peace can dwell only where all egotism has disappeared....

 —Gautama Buddha

 To insure peace of mind, ignore the rules and regulations....

 —William Feather

 Peace is the most priceless possession of man. It is the sign of a
virtuous character....	— Sathya Sai Baba

 Peace can reign only where there is no disturbance, and disturbance is
due to thoughts that arise in the mind....

 —Ramana Maharshi

 Our work for peace must begin within the private world of each of
us....

 —Dag Hammarskjold

 The peace which results from social comfort, passing gratification, or
worldly victory is transitory in nature, and is burned up in the heat of
fiery trial....only the selfless heart can know the Peace of Heaven....
— James Allen

 Peace is in that heart in which no wave of desire of any kind
arises....This eternal peace is your real existence—it is not a state
or truth to be attained but to be realized; because you are ever
That....	— Papa Ramdas

 Whoever lives in the spirit lives in perennial peace. It is a happy
peace, a smiling peace, but he is not lost in it. He is aware also of
the suffering which exists around him and the world at large....	—
Paul Brunton

 I realize that God is always at peace. Even when God is expressing
excitement as a storm at sea, God is still at peace....	— William
Curtiss

 Peace is better than a fortune....

 —Francis de Sales

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Peace/Harmony 	♦?	 358 	♦?	
Perfection

 	 Tfips*		

 The first rule is to keep an untroubled spirit. The second is to look
things in the face and know them for what they are....	 -—Marcus
Aurelius

 Everyone thirsts for peace, but few people understand that perfect
peace cannot be obtained as long as the inner soul is not filled with
the presence of God....	 —AnandamayiMa

 As long as you have no equanimity and can still feel the sting of
insult, you have not attained to the state where you can connect your
thoughts with God....	 —Isaac of Acre

 There can never be peace between nations until there is first known
that true peace which....is within the souls of men....	 —Black Elk

 People look in vain places for peace. They seek it in the world
outside, in places, people, ways, activities....but there is no peace
found this way. They are looking in the wrong direction, and the longer
they look the less they find what they are looking for....

 —Meister Eckhart

 Nothing we ever get, see, taste, smell, touch, hear, or think about, is
going to bring us the peace we really seek....

 —Bo Lozoff

 To win true peace, a man needs to feel directed, pardoned, and
sustained by a supreme power....	 —Henri F. Amiel

 Peace cannot be kept by force. It can only be achieved by
understanding....

 —Albert Einstein

 No matter how turbulent the storm might be, there is an ‘eye’ at
the center of the hurricane where all is calm and still....	 —Donald
Curtis

 Inner peace is not found by staying on the surface of life, or by
attempting to escape from life through any means. Inner peace is found
by facing life squarely, solving its problems, and delving as far
beneath the surface as possible to discover its verities and
realities....	 —Peace Pilgrim

 A  peaceful mind is your most precious capital....	 —Sivananda

 Peace is important, for God’s name is Peace....	 —Midrash Tahama

 The first step to bringing peace into the world is to realize the peace
that already dwells within you....

 —Anonymous

 &

  Perfection 

 Y

 our basic nature is that of perfec-tion....Life works perfectly, natu-

 rally, when you are willing to let it.When you try, you are not letting
it benaturally perfect....  —Ron Smothermon

 There can never be a perfect world because the world is always a
creation of an imperfect mind. A perfect object cannot be made by such
an imperfect tool....	 —Ramana Maharshi

 God is perfection itself, not an effort at perfection....	
—Nisargadatta

 The perfect way is difficult for those who pick and choose. We should
not like or dislike, only then will all become clear....	 —Seng
Ts’an

 The perfect man employs his mind as a mirror. It grasps nothing: It
refuses nothing. It receives, but doesn’t keep. Thus he can triumph
over matter, without injury to himself.... — Lao-tzu

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Perfection

 Everything has its own perfection, be it higher or lower in the scale
of things; and the perfection of one is not the perfection of
another....

 —John H. Newman

 This is perfect, that is perfect; from perfection, perfection comes;
take away perfection from perfection. Perfection remains....	—
Haidakhan Aarati

 To imagine oneself perfect fixes the idea of perfection in the
invisible mind substance, and the mind forces at once begin the work of
bringing forth perfection....	— Charles Fillmore

 No one ever approaches perfection except by stealth, and unknown to
themselves....	— William Hazlitt

 This is the very perfection of man, to find out his own perfection....

 —Augustine

 To seek perfection in property or health or character is not a worthy
human goal; nor is it a proper cause of pride and glory for man; the
knowledge of God is the only true wisdom, and the sole perfection man
should seek....

 —Maimonides

 We can never attain perfection while we have an affliction for any
imperfection....	— Francis de Sales

 Every perfect life is a parable invented by God....	— Shnone Weil

 Life is perfect exactly the way it is; no one ever said perfection must
be consistent....	— Shantidasa

 The pursuit of perfection often impedes progress....	— George Will

 Don’t you see that it’s all perfect?...

 —Neem Karoli Baba

  359  ♦?	 Perfection 

 ‘Sp? —	

 When people reach the highest per-fection, it is nothing special, it is
theirnormal condition....	— Hindu saying

 The demand for perfection on thephysical plane can be your
worstenemy....	— Emmanuel

 The quest for perfection is a curse....

 —Melvyn Kinder

 Perfection is eternal....

 —Charles Secretan

 Only in the deepest silence of the nightthe stars smile and whisper
amongthemselves: vain is this (human) seek-ing: unbroken perfection is
over all....

 —Rabindrinath Tagore

 If we accept God as perfect, we mustadmit a perfect universe and
Cosmicscheme. If, however, we do not accept abelief in a perfect
universe, then wehave to accept an imperfect Creator....

 —Henry T. Hamblin

 We are part of a design which fits all itsparts together perfectly....

 —C.  Alan Anderson

 They are the perfect men who, beingsuch, out of the greatness of
theirloving hearts, make themselves smallto slave continuously to make
theimperfect ones perfect also....

 —Sufi saying

 Be ye perfect, even as your Fatherwhich is in Heaven is perfect....

 —Jesus

 It is reasonable to have perfection inour eye that we may advance
toward it,though we know it can never bereached....	— Samuel Johnson

 In and with all your imperfections,YOU are perfect....	— Sunyata

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065    Perfection	*	360 

 	

 You already are your perfect Self. It isonly a matter of recognition.
Therenever was, is, or will be moreperfection that you are at this
perfectmoment....	— David Manners

 The search for perfection—which is asearch for divinity—is nothing
morethan the failure to accept our existencethe way it is....	—
Bernadette Roberts

 Perfection is not attained at that pointat which nothing can be added,
but atthat point at which nothing can betaken away....	— Bud Wilkenson

 Perfection consists not in doingextraordinary things, but in
doingordinary things extraordinarily well.Neglect nothing; the most
trivial actionmay be performed to God....

 —Angelique Amauld

 Everything, by an impulse of its ownnature, tends toward
perfection....Eve-rything is at its best and most perfectwhen in the
condition intended for itby the First Cause.... -—  Dante Alighieri

 Ultimate perfection does not includeany action or good conduct, but
onlyknowledge....	— Maimonides

 If you consistently do your best, theworst won't happen....	-— B.	C.
Forbes

 Aim at perfection in everything, thoughin most things it is
unattainable....

 —Philip Chesterfield

 A  man ought to live always in perfectholiness....	— Plato

 It is only imperfection that complainsof what is imperfect. The more
perfectwe are the more....quiet we becometoward the defects of
others....

 —Francois Fenelon

 Perfection

 Perfection is attained by slow degrees; it requires the hand of
time....	— Voltaire

 The perfect man desires tranquility....

 —Philo

 This is moral perfection: to live each day as though it were the last;
to be tranquil, sincere....

 -—Marcus Aurelius

 The man with insight enough to admit his limitations comes nearest to
perfection....	— Johann W. Goethe

 When you aim for perfection, you discover it’s a moving target....

 —George Fisher

 Nothing gives a man a sense of failure so often as an overdeveloped
sense of perfection....	— George S. Odiome

 Perfection is immutable, but for things imperfect, to change is to
perfect them....	— Owen Felltham

 People who seek perfection in their lives are setting themselves up for
failure....	— Anonymous

 Behind this world of unreality and seeming imperfection is the Perfect
World of Reality, the perfect expression of the Divine Idea....The
perfect man already IS, and as this Truth is revealed so is he brought
into manifestation....

 —Henry T. Hamblin

 On the one hand evil is necessary for good, for were the imperfections
not felt, there would be no striving after perfection....	— Giordano
Bruno

 Perfection consists in one thing alone, which is doing the will of
God....

 —Vincent de Paul

 When a thing bores you, do not do it. Do not pursue fruitless
perfection....

 —Eugene Delacroix

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065    Perfection 

 Perfection means a state in which allyour senses and passions are
undercontrol and you are absolute master ofyour own self. Perfection
does notmean a realm, but a state of existence, alevel of enlarged
consciousness wherewe come into tune with the infinite....

 —Abhedananda

 Perfection....of all the ways to reach it,the first is humility; the
second ishumility; the third, humility....

 —Augustine

 God gave man the power of reason,which makes man capable of
per-fection....	— Maimonides

 The image of perfection is the sun andif you adapt him as your model,
if, likehim, you think of nothing but bringinglight, warmth and life to
all creatures,then you will really work your owntransformation....

 —Ornraam M. Aivanhov

 &

  Perseverance 

 e have many second chancesin life, sometimes even tenth

 chances. Let no man give up hope tillthe last breath is drawn....

 —Charles F. Potter

 Perseverance is a great element of success. If you only knock long
enough and loud enough at the gate, you are sure to wake up somebody....

 —Henry W. Longfellow

 Austere perseverance, harsh and continuous, may be employed by the
least of us and rarely fails of its purpose, for its silent power grows
irreversibly greater with time....

 —Johann W. Goethe

 361 *	Perseverance

 The difference between perseverance and obstinacy is that one comes
from a strong will and the other from a strong won’t....	— Henry W.
Beecher

 Do not be afraid to demand great things of yourself. Powers which you
never dreamed you possessed will leap to your assistance....	— Orison
S. Marden

 In the confrontation between the stream and the rock, the stream always
wins—not through strength but by perseverance ....	— H. Jackson
Brown

 What can a man not accomplish if he will but master the secret of
steadfast perseverance....	— Alice H. Rice

 Continuous effort—not strength or intelligence—is the key to
unlocking our potential....	 —Liane	Cordes

 Not in rewards, but in the strength to strive, the blessing lies....

 —John T. Trowbridge

 The drops of rain make a hole in the stone, not by violence, but by
often falling....	— Lucretius

 It’s not the size of the dog in a fight, it’s the size of the fight
in the dog....

 —Kit Raymond

 I hold to the doctrine that with ordinary talent, and extraordinary
perseverance, all things are attainable....

 —Thomas Buxton

 The block of granite which was an obstacle in the pathway of the weak
becomes a stepping stone in the pathway of the strong....

 —Thomas Carlyle

 No rock is so hard but that a little wave may beat admission in a
thousand years....	— Alfred L. Tennyson

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Perseverance

 362

 -  nsp? -

 Perseverance

 Press on! A better fate awaits you....

 —Victor Hugo

 That which we persist in doing becomes easier—not that the nature of
the task has changed, but our ability to do it has increased....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 I know of no more encouraging fact than the unquestionable ability of
man to elevate his life by conscious endeavor....	— Henry D. Thoreau

 Great people are just ordinary people with an extraordinary amount of
determination....	— Robert Schuller

 Perseverance is the ability to follow through on an idea long after the
mood has passed....	— Anonymous

 If you persevere in reaching out into the Invisible, then outward work
and labor cease to be anxious toil, and you are able to accomplish far
more, with less effort than ever before....

 —Henry T. Hamblin

 If you must begin then go all the way, because if you begin and quit,
the unfinished business you have left behind begins to haunt you all the
time....	— Chogyam Trungpa

 I think and think for months and years. Ninety-nine times the
conclusion is false. The hundredth time I am right....

 —Albert Einstein

 Times of growth are beset with difficulties....But these difficulties
arise from the profusion of all that is struggling to attain form.
Everything is in motion: Therefore, if one perseveres there is a
prospect of great success....

 —I Ching

 The constant dripping of water wears away the stone....	— Sufi saying

 Flinch not, neither give up or despair, if thou dost not invariably
succeed in acting from right principles....

 —Marcus Aurelius

 Endure and persist; this pain will turn to your good by and by....	—
Ovid

 Steady perseverance alone will tame your mind, and it is only through a
tamed mind that you can experience God....	— Sathya Sai Baba

 Decide what you want, decide what you are willing to exchange for it.
Establish your priorities and go to work....

 — H. L. Hunt

 One of the simplest things about all facts of life is that to get where
you want to go, you must keep on keeping on....	— Norman V. Peale

 When luck is running against you, that is the time to play harder, to
cinch up your belt, pluck up your courage, smile, and be unafraid....
— U. S. Anderson

 Do what you can, with what you have, where you are.... — Theodore
Roosevelt

 Let me tell you the secret that has led me to my goal. My strength lies
solely in my tenacity....	— Louis Pasteur

 There is no royal road to anything. One thing at a time, and all things
in succession. That which grows slowly, endures....	— Josiah Holland

 Perseverance is more prevailing than violence; and many things which
cannot be overcome when they are together yield themselves up when taken
little by little....	— Plutarch

 Persistent people begin their success where others end in failure....

 —Edward Eggleston

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Perseverance	*	363 	♦?	 Pessimism

  —  	

 Persistence has performed greater things than ambition and ability. If
you lack persistency where you are, you will lack grit where you go....

 —Fred  Van Amburgh

 It is persistence that gives the one who uses it an actual mathematical
edge on his fellows. He is making the laws of chance work for him....

 —Douglas Lurton

 Nothing in the world can take the place of persistence. Talent will
not; nothing is more common than unsuccessful men with talent. Genius
will not; unrewarded genius is almost a proverb. Education will not; the
world is filled with educated derelicts. Perseverance and determination
alone are omnipotent....	— Calvin Coolidge

 Never give in. Never, never, never, never. In nothing great or small,
large or petty—never give in except to convictions of honor and good
sense....

 —Winston Churchill

 Victory belongs to the most persevering....	— Napoleon Bonaparte

 Take up one thing and do it, and see the end of it, and before you have
seen the end, do not give up. Those who only take a nibble here and a
nibble there will never attain anything....

 —Vivekananda

 Great works are performed, not by strength, but by perseverance. He
that shall walk with vigor, three hours a day, will pass in seven years,
a space equal to the circumference of the globe....	— Samuel Johnson

 We will either find a way or make one....	 —Hannibal

 There are two ways of attaining an important end—force and
perseverance. Force falls to the lot of a privileged few, but austere
and sustained perseverance by the insignificant—its silent power grows
irresistible with time....

 —Ann S. Swetchine

 Perseverance is the essence of success. The diamond is the product of
the charcoal sticking and hardening sufficiently long....	— Anonymous

 The characteristic of heroism is its persistency. All men have
wandering impulses, fits and starts....But when you have chosen your
part, abide by it, and do not weakly try to reconcile yourself with the
world....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 Success depends upon staying power. The reason for failure in most
cases is lack of perseverance....

 —James R. Miller

 One cannot achieve anything lasting in this world by being
irresolute....

 —Mohandas Gandhi

 The man who persists in knocking will succeed in entering....

 —Moses Ibn Ezra

  Pessimism 

 N

 o  one has ever been able to con-vince me that optimism is not

 preferable to pessimism....

 —Robert Mueller

 The minute you identify with, “it’s difficult,” that’s what
your experience has got to be....	— Stephen H. Wolinsky

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Pessimism 	♦?	 364	*	Pessisism

 	  c  The pessimist....is seldom an agitating individual. His creed
breeds indifference to others, and he does not trouble himself to thrust
his views upon the unconvinced....	— Agnes Repplier

 The pessimist tells us that the thorns outlive the roses, and this is
true, but a sharp prick from a thorn teaches us to use more care in
gathering roses....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 The optimist keeps his eye on the doughnut; the pessimist can only see
the hole....	— Anonymous

 The optimist is right. The pessimist is right. The one differs from the
other as the light from the dark. Yet both are right. Each is right from
his own particular point of view, and this point of view is the
determining factor in the life of each. It determines as to whether it
is a life of power or of impotence, of peace or of pain, of success or
of failure....	— Ralph W. Trine

 The worst walls are the ones you find in your way. The worst walls are
the ones you put there—you build yourself. Those are the high ones,
the thick ones, the ones with no doors....

 —Ursula K. LeGuin

 When people are depressed they are also pessimistic....

 —Martin E. P. Seligman

 Each one of us has a way of deceiving himself....	— Andre Gide

 Watch what people are cynical about, and one can often discover what
they lack....	 —Harry	E.	Fosdick

 I never think of the negative. All obstacles can be overcome....

 —Donald Trump

 If there seem to be negative attributes of a situation and one positive
aspect, we must seize on that one thing, bless it, hold to it with
determination, meditate upon it, be grateful for it, exaggerate it, and
glorify it....

 —Alan Cohen

 You can’t raise positive people on negative feedback....

 —Gerald Jampolsky

 Everything we shut our eyes to, everything we run away from, everything
we deny, denigrate or despise, serves to defeat us in the end. What
seems nasty, painful, evil, can become a source of beauty, joy and
strength, if faced with an open mind....	— Henry Miller

 Man is not naturally a cynic; he wants pitifully to believe in himself,
in his future, in his community and in the nation of which he is a
part....

 —Louis Bromfield

 A cynic can chill and dishearten with a single word....	— Ralph W.
Emerson

 Pessimists are second-rate people. They do not believe in life.
Pessimism is just an excuse for their cowardice. All they want is to
drag you down and appease their own feelings of mediocrity and fear....
— U. S. Anderson

 Our negative thoughts are like black wings covering the sun. When we
think too many of them, we find ourself living in a world of darkness
and gloom....	— Elinor MacDonald

 Never think a defeatist thought....Never lose faith! God’s will is
bound to prevail in the end....	— Peace Pilgrim

 We can destroy ourselves by cynicism and disillusion just as
effectively as by bombs....	— Kenneth Clark

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Pessimism 	♦?	 365	*	Pessimism

   	

 A cynic is not merely one who reads bitter lessons from the past; he is
one who is prematurely disappointed in the future....	— Sydney J.
Harris

 A  pessimist is very gloomy and depressed, lazy and lethargic.
Cheerfulness is unknown to him. He infects others. Pessimism is an
epidemic and infectious disease. A pessimist cannot succeed in the
world....	— Sivananda

 When it is dark enough you can see the stars....	— Charles A. Beard

 The world is moving so fast these days that the man who says it can’t
be done is generally interrupted by someone doing it....	— Harry E.
Fosdick

 Pessimism likes to build walls where optimism builds bridges....

 —Anonymous

 A  pessimist is a man who thinks everybody as nasty as himself, and
hates them for it....

 —George B. Shaw

 Those who sneer habitually at human nature, and affect to despise it,
are among its worst and least pleasant samples....	— Charles Dickens

 Cynics are only happy in making the world as barren to others as they
made it for themselves....

 —George Meredith

 When the outlook is steeped in pessimism, I remind myself, “Two and
two still make four, and you can’t keep mankind down for long.”...

 —Bernard M. Baruch

 A  cynic is just a man who found out when he was about ten that there
wasn’t any Santa Claus, and he’s still upset....	— James G.
Cozzens

 A  pessimist sees only the dark side of the clouds, and mopes; a
philosopher sees both sides and shrugs; an optimist doesn’t see the
clouds at all—he’s walking on them....	— D. O. Flynn

 Cynicism is, after all, simply idealism gone sour....	— Will Herberg

 Pessimism is mental disease....It means illness in the person who
voices it, and in the society which produces that person....	— Upton
Sinclair

 Away with pessimism! Let us work at whatever is pure, whatsoever is
constructive, and not parade our failings and our sins....

 —Wilfred T. Grenfell

 A  cynic is a man who knows the price of everything, and the value of
nothing....	— Oscar Wilde

 The only deadly sin I know is cynicism....	— Henry L. Stimson

 The pessimist, by virtue of his limitations, is making his own hell,
and in the degree that he makes his own hell is he helping to make one
for all mankind....	— Ralph W. Trine

 There is no sadder sight than a young pessimist....	— Mark Train

 A  skeptic is a person who, when he sees the handwriting on the wall,
claims it is a forgery....	— Morris Bender

 Both the optimist and the pessimist are right, but as different as
light is from darkness....	— Anonymous

 How you think when you lose determines how long it will be until you
win....	— David Schwartz

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Possessions

 Possessions

 P

 ossessions are generally dimin-ished by possession....

 —Friedrich W. Nietzsche

 If we could put material things intotheir proper place, and use them
with-out being attached to them, how muchfreer we would be. Then we
wouldn’tburden ourselves with things we don’tneed....	 —Peace
Pilgrim

 Remember that only that to which youhave developed the attitude
ofownership can be snatched away fromyou....	 —Ormond McGill

 If a man’s happiness is due to outercauses and external possessions,
then aman devoid of possessions should haveno happiness whatever. Does
real expe-rience show this? No....

 —Ramana  Maharshi

 The moment you have a desire topossess something is the exact momentyou
enter into the first phase ofenslavement to it....	 —Anonymous

 The sense of possession is a greatobstacle to the realization of
God.Attachment to any external objectnarrows our vision, fosters egotism
andgives rise to the false notion that we areseparate from God....	
—Papa Ramdas

 Trying to satisfy one’s desires withpossessions is like putting out a
firewith straw....	 —Confucius

 Whatever there be on the surface of theearth—property, gold, cattle,
goodhealth—none of these truly satisfy man.Tranquility arises from
this under-

 standing....	 —Tibetan saying

  366  ♦?	 Possessions 

 -  	

 Some day people will learn thatmaterial things do not bring
happi-ness....	 —Charles P. Steinmetz

 Complete possession is proved only bygiving. All you are able to give
pos-sesses you....	 —Andre Gide

 No possession is gratifying without acompanion to share it....	
—Seneca

 Of what can we be sure, except thatwhatever we have will soon be
gone?...

 —Yoga Vasistha

 Possessions are mere transient effectsthat come when they are required,
andafter their purpose has been served,pass away....	 —James Allen

 You may possess things, but you mustnot be possessed by them....

 —Aurobindo

 When you don’t have possessions, youdon’t constantly live to
acquire andprotect them....	 —Mario Morgan

 Unnecessary possessions are unneces-sary burdens. If you have them,
youwill have to take care of them....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 Possession of material riches, withoutinner peace, is like dying of
thirst whilebathing in a lake. If material poverty isto be avoided,
spiritual poverty is to beabhorred. For it is spiritual poverty,
notmaterial lack, that lies at the core of allhuman suffering....

 —Paramahansa Yogananda

 It is the preoccupation with possession,more than anything else, that
preventsmen from living freely and nobly....

 —Bertrand Russell

 Property has its duties as well as itsrights....	 —Thomas Drummond

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890       shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890  
Possessions

 ♦?  367  ♦?

 Possessions

 ■?

 With the great part of rich people, the chief employment of riches
consists in the parade of riches....	— Adam Smith

 Every time we think we have really taken possession of something, the
truth is we have completely lost it....

 —Alan W. Watts

 Self-mastery is a far greater possession than the possession of earth
goods. If we do not possess ourselves, we may possess all the fine
things of life and be unable to use them to any advantage....

 —Paramanananda

 Material possessions are oftentimes a hindrance toward attaining higher
consciousness. They take a cunning delight in becoming one’s master
while appearing as a benevolent slave....

 —Shantidasa

 Our most valuable possessions are those which can be shared without
lessening—those which, when shared, multiply. Our least valuable
possessions, on the other hand, are those which, when divided, are
diminished....

 —William H. Danforth

 The emptiness of life cannot be satisfied by filling ourselves with
possessions, although many people try....	— Anonymous

 The rich man is not one who is in possession of much, but one who gives
much....	— John Chrysostom

 Attachment to material things is a sign of inferiority, because the
more a man cares for the things of this world, the less does he
understand his destiny; his disinterestedness, on the contrary, proves
that he has arrived at a wider and clearer view of the future....

 —Allan Kardec

 You possess only whatever will be not lost in a shipwreck.... —
El-Ghazali

 You give but little when you give of your possessions. It is when you
give of yourself that you truly give....

 —Kahlil Gibran

 All the possessions of mortals are mortal....	— Metrodorus

 Do not cultivate too much attachment to things of the world, which
appeal to carnal desires and sensual thirsts. A moment comes when you
have to depart empty-handed, leaving all you have laboriously collected
and proudly called your own....	— Sathya Sai Baba

 The wise man carries his possessions with him....	— BiasofPriene

 A  life spent, however victoriously, in securing the necessaries of
life is no more than an elaborate furnishing and decoration of
apartments for the reception of a guest who is never to come....	— A.
E. Housman

 Man was created to serve God and to cleave to Him, not to accumulate
wealth and erect buildings which he must leave behind....	— Ibn Ezra

 I carry all my possessions with me....

 —Cicero

 It is possible to own too much. A man with one watch knows what time it
is; a man with two watches is never quite sure....	— Lee Segall

 How is it possible to find real happiness in those things which, by
their very nature, must pass away?...

 —James Allen

 We only possess what we renounce; what we do not renounce escapes from
us....	— Simone Weil

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Possessions

 368

 -  **&•  -

 Power

 What does not belong to you does not have the power to disturb you....

 -—Anonymous

 We try to acquire so many things of the world, but find no peace in
them. When your mind is flitting from object to object....it lives in a
state of restlessness which is itself misery. After possession of an
object, comes care and anxieties; after a loss, grief and pain....

 —Papa Ramdas

 Property is the greatest cause of human troubles....	— Seneca

 He who is enslaved with the sole desire for material possessions here
will continue to be enslaved even after he can no longer retain his
body....

 —Ralph W. Trine

 People have had to make up for their spiritual impoverishment by
accumulating material things. When spiritual blessings come, material
blessings seem unimportant....As long as we desire material things this
is all we receive, and we remain spiritually impoverished....	— Peace
Pilgrim

  Power 

 Y

 ou gain power over another per-son in one of two ways: by win-

 ning his heart or by breaking hisspirit....	— Anonymous

 Love of money often makes a man a coward, but love of power always
makes a man a brute. It is the most degrading love of all. Love of
material well-being seldom hurts others, but love of power and glory
always does....

 —Lin Yutang

 dtp

 As wealth is power, so all power mustinfallibly draw wealth to itself
by somemeans or other....	— Edmund Burke

 Achievement gives power, but renunci-ation gives still more power....

 —Hazrat Inayat Khan

 If you make power and fame your goal,even if you attain them, you will
findthat they don’t bring you what youthought they would—it’s an
emptyexperience....	— Dean Oriush

 Power will intoxicate the best hearts, aswine the strongest heads. No
man iswise enough, nor good enough to betrusted with unlimited power....

 —Charles C. Colton

 If any man is rich and powerful hecomes under the law of God by
whichthe higher branches must take theburning of the sun, and shade
thosethat are lower; by which the tall treesmust protect the weak plants
beneaththem....	— Henry W. Beecher

 Anyone entrusted with power willabuse it if not also animated with
thelove of truth and virtue, no matterwhether he be a prince, or one of
thepeople....	— Jean La Fortaine

 Because men are everywhere corrupt-ible and always corrupted, no man
orgroup of men can be trusted with toomuch power and indeed with no
powerat all which is not balanced or checkedby the power of other
men....

 — J. V. Langmead Casserlay

 Authority poisons everyone who takesauthority on himself....

 —Vladimir I. Lenin

 Don’t fight forces. Use them....

 —Buckminster Fuller

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Power 	 ♦? 	 3

 Force is as pitiless to the man who possesses it, or thinks he does, as
it is to its victims; the second it crushes, the first it intoxicates.
The truth is, nobody really possesses it....	— Simone Weil

 Authority has always attracted the lowest elements of the human
race....

 — P. J. O’Rourke

 Power should not be concentrated in the hands of so few, and
powerlessness in the hands of so many....

 —Maggie Kuhn

 You have much more power when you are working for the right thing than
when you are working against the wrong thing....	-— Peace Pilgrim

 Authority without wisdom is like a heavy axe without an edge, fitter to
bruise than polish....

 —Anne Bradstreet

 Nobody has a right to arbitrary and despotic power. No, nobody, not
even God. Nobody is the absolute master of anybody else....	— Eliphas
Levi

 Power is sweet, it is a drug, the desire for which increases with
habit....

 —Bertrand Russell

 Force is no remedy....

 —John Bright

 The lust for power, for dominating others, inflames the heart more than
any other passion....	— Tacitus

 You only have power over people as long as you don’t take everything
from them. But when you’ve robbed a man of everything, he’s no
longer in your power—he’s free again....

 —Alexander Solzhenitsyn

 9  ♦?	 Power

 Power is much more easily manifested in destroying than in creating....

 —William Wordsworth

 Power resides not in aggressiveness, but in conscious choice....

 —Stephanie Rhea

 The leader who controls others by fear will find that the control is
reactive and temporary....	— Stephen R. Covey

 Desire for power acts like puffs of air which may blow out the
lamp....that is being carefully tended....

 —Sivananda

 Power undirected by high purpose spells calamity.... — Theodore
Roosevelt

 Power without wisdom falls of its own weight....	— Horace

 This is the secret of power....to rein in, with unfaltering will, the
dark steed of desire....	— James Allen

 Where love reigns, there is no will to power; and where the will to
power is paramount, love is lacking. The one is but the shadow of the
other....

 —Carl Jung

 Those who have been once intoxicated with power....even but for one
year, never can willingly abandon it....

 —Edmund Burke

 Power is the attempt to produce any effect, and to succeed....

 —William Hazlitt

 Into the hands of every individual is given a marvelous power for good
or evil—the silent, unconscious, unseen influence of his life. This is
simply the constant radiation of what man really is, not what he
pretends to be....

 —William G. Jordan

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Power

 370

 - -

 Power

 Patience and gentleness is power....

 —Leigh Hunt

 The measure of man is what he does with power....	— Pittacus

 All progress and infinite power is in every man’s nature, only it is
barred in and prevented from taking its proper course. If anyone can
take the bar off, in rushes nature....	— Vivekananda

 You must everyone....

 yield up

 power over —Pantanjali

 The seeds of godlike power are in us still: Gods we are, Bards, Saints,
Heroes, if we will....	— Matthew Arnold

 Power always corrupts; absolute power absolutely corrupts. All great
men are bad....	 —Lord Acton

 I have never been able to conceive how any rational being could propose
happiness to himself from the exercise of power over others....

 —Thomas Jefferson

 No one is fit to be trusted with power. No one....	— C. P. Snow

 No master cared a rap for occult powers for he has no need for them in
his daily life....	— Ramana Maharshi

 To know the pains of power, we must go to those who have it; to know
its pleasures, we must go to those who are seeking it: the pains of
power are real, its pleasures imaginary....

 —Charles C. Colton

 Power is far from being desirable in itself, that it sometimes ought to
be refused, and sometimes to be resigned....	— Cicero

 If power is what you want and you think you want it for the service of
humanity, don’t trust your thinking too much....	 —Fritz Kunkel

 Abusive power demonstrates itself by knocking down doors that are best
unlocked with a key....	— Anonymous

 Of all men’s miseries the bitterest is this, to know so much and to
have control over nothing....

 —Herodotus

 People want to demonstrate power, and that is a sickness even God
cannot cure. It is beyond curing, and they call it “spiritual ego.”
When a man becomes a little spiritual and people start loving him and
respecting him, giving him things, bowing to him, well, that’s where
the problem starts....

 —Yogi Bhajan

 It is a strange desire that seeks power over others while losing power
over oneself....	— Francis Bacon

 Grim experience taught men that power is poisonous to its possessors;
that no dynasty and no class can exclusively control the engines of
power without ultimately confusing their public interest with the public
well-being....	— Harold J. Laski

 You shall have joy, or you shall have power, said God; you shall not
have both....	— Ralph W. Emerson

 Beware of dissipating your powers; strive constantly to concentrate
them....

 —Johann W. Goethe

 Never underestimate the power of a loosely knit group working for a
good cause....Their power is beyond their numbers....	— Peace Pilgrim

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Power 	 ♦? 	 3

 Those in power only want to perpetuate it....	— William O. Douglas

 Power exercised with violence has seldom been of long duration, but
temperance and moderation generally produce permanence in all things....

 —Frederick Langbridge

 The wrong sort of people are always in power because they would not be
in power if they were not the wrong sort of people....	— Jon
Wynne-Tyson

 Right and truth are greater than any power....	— Benjamin Whichcote

 Power gradually extirpates from the mind every humane and gentle
virtue....and the greater the powers, the more dangerous the abuse....

 —Edmund Burke

 Occult powers are heaps of rubbish....

 —Ramakrishna

 Power may be justly compared to a great river; while kept within its
bounds it is both beautiful and useful; but when it overflows its banks,
it is too impetuous to be stemmed; it bears down all before it, and
brings destruction and desolation wherever it comes....	— Andrew
Hamilton

 Power is of two kinds. One is obtained by the fear of punishment and
the other by the art of love. Power based on love is a thousand times
more effective and permanent than the one derived from fear of
punishment....

 —Plutarch

 Why settle for little powers, when you can have God?...	— Hilda
Charlton

 Power is a Dead Sea fruit. When you achieve it, there is nothing
there....

 —George Macdonald

 1  ♦?	 Power

 Power is a dangerous thing to handle, even in religion....	— Joseph
R. Sizoo

 A  man who possesses wealth possesses power; but it is a power to do
evil as well as good....	— Angel S. Roe

 In this world there are two forces: the sword and the spirit. The
spirit has always conquered the sword....

 —Napoleon Bonaparte

 The true secret of power lies in keeping one’s connection with the
God who worketh all things.... — Ralph W. Trine

 Power without love becomes brutal; love without power is insipid and
weak....	— Robert A. Johnson

 He is most powerful who has power over himself....	— Seneca

 Possession of powers causes intoxication of mind. He who possesses
powers always misuses them. He wants to command, control and domineer
over others. It is very difficult to renounce position and power....

 —Sivananda

 Every type of power besides being a means is at the same time an
end—at least for those who aspire to it....

 —Milovan Djilas

 The love of power is the love of ourselves....	— William Hazlitt

 The only prize much cared for by the powerful is power. The prize of
the general is not a bigger tent, but command....	— Oliver W. Holmes

 Power flows to the man who knows how....	— Elbert Hubbard

 Power is poison....

 —Henry Adams

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Power

 372

 -  ‘XT ' ~

 Power

 We cannot avoid using power, cannot escape the compulsion to afflict
the world, so let us, cautious in diction and mighty in contradiction,
Love powerfully....	— Martin Buber

 From the summit of power men no longer turn their eyes upward, but
begin to look about them....

 —James Russell Lowell

 The love of power may be as dominant in the heart of a peasant as of a
prince....	— J. T. Headly

 Power entraps even when it is used to do good....	— Ram Dass

 To get power over is to defile. To possess is to defile....	— Simone
Weil

 Power is not happiness....

 —William Godwin

 Those who are in the highest places and have the most power, have the
least liberty, because they are the most observed....	— John Tillotson

 The lust for power is not rooted in strength but in weakness....

 —Erich Fromm

 Power always sincerely, conscientiously, believes itself right....Power
must never be trusted....	— John Adams

 Those who have seized power, even for the noblest of motives, soon
persuade themselves that there are good reasons for not relinquishing
it. This is particularly likely to happen if they believe themselves to
represent some immensely important cause....

 —Bertrand Russell

 Unlimited power is apt to corrupt the minds of those who possess it....

 —William Penn

 Power buries those who would wield it....	— The Talmud

 Personal power lies in taking responsibility for yourself, not in
assuming the responsibilities of other people....

 —Anonymous

 It is impossible to reign innocently....

 —Antoine Saint-Just

 Even in a righteous cause, force is a fearful thing....

 —Johann von Schiller

 Power, like a desolating pestilence, pollutes whatever it touches....

 —Percy B. Shelley

 There is no more contemptible poison than power over one’s fellow
men....

 —Maksim Gorky

 As for men in power, they are so anxious to establish the myth of their
infallibility that they do the utmost to ignore truth....	— Boris
Pasternak

 Experience constantly proves that every man who has power is impelled
to abuse it....	— Charles de Secondat

 It is not power itself, but the legitimation of the lust for power,
which corrupts absolutely....

 —Richard H. Crossman

 A  man is possessed of limited powers and is miserable; he wants to
expand his powers so that he may be happy. But consider if it will be
so; if with limited perceptions one is miserable, with extended
perceptions the misery must increase proportionally....

 —Ramana Maharshi

 The truth is that all men having power ought to be mistrusted....

 —James Madison

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Power

 373

 - -

 Prayer

 The love of power comes from a lack of the most important power, that
of living a life of eternity with every creature....	— Aaron D. Gordon

 Power intoxicates men. It is never voluntarily surrendered. It must be
taken from them....	— James F. Byrnes

 As long as....power exists there will always be rulers and ruled,
masters and slaves, exploiters and exploited....

 —Mikhail A. Bakunin

 All persons possessing a portion of power ought to be strongly and
awfully impressed with an idea that they act in trust, and that they are
to account for their conduct in that trust to the one great Master,
Author, and Founder of society....	— Edmund Burke

 He is the best of men who dislikes power....	— Mohammed

 Real power has fullness and variety. It is not narrow like lightning,
but broad like light....	— Roswell D. Hitchcock

 He who does not desert his principles when threatened with the loss of
every earthly thing, even to the loss of reputation and life, is the man
of power....	— James Allen

 True power is the falling away of individual identity....

 —Maya Sarada Devi

 Unlimited power is worse for the average person than unlimited alcohol;
and the resulting intoxication is more dangerous....	— William L.
Phelps

 There is no stronger test of a man’s character than power and
authority, exciting as they do every passion, and discovering every
latent vice....

 —Plutarch

 The heart declines when power mounts to the head....	— Henry Hurwitz

 The human mind is prone to pride even when not supported by power; how
much more, then, does it exalt itself when it has support....

 —Pope Gregory I

 The aspirant to knowledge should beware of occult powers. Even if they
come and court him of their own accord, he should reject them....

 —G.  V. Sabbaramayya

 Power directed by guilt has seldom been directed to any good end or
useful purpose....	 -—Tacitus

 No one with absolute power can be trusted to give it up even in
part....

 —Louis D. Brandeis

 Power is strength and the ability to see yourself through your own eyes
and not through the eyes of another. It is being able to place a circle
of power at your own feet and not take power from someone else’s
circle....

 —Agnes Whistling Elk

  Prayer 

 I

 oy and thankfulness are the secretingredients to all
successfulgrayer....	 —Anonymous

 The one who prays and the one towhom prayers are addressed are oneand
the same....	— Yoga Swami

 Many times the words of our prayer arein conflict with the real desires
of ourheart. We pray for one thing whenreally we want something else....

 —Charles L. Allen

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Prayer

 374

 -  ■?***• -

 Prayer is a perpetual stillness of theheart, a surrendering to yourself
as theaspect of God within you. Prayer is notbeseeching an entity
outside us forfavors, but acknowledging the presenceof God with us....

 —A Spiritual Warrior

 Communicating with God is a deepinner knowing that God is within youand
around you. God “speaks” throughthe still small voice within....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 Spiritual favors are not always to belooked for, and not always to be
reliedupon....	— Amelia Barr

 Prayer is not an old woman’s idleamusement. Properly understood
andapplied, it is the most potent instru-ment of action....	— Mohandas
Gandhi

 A  simple prayer for the soul’s journeyis: “I will to will Thy
will.” Such a sim-ple form of prayer is proper, it seems,on almost any
occasioa... — Ralph Blum

 It is a travesty to pray daily “Thy king-dom come” and then do
nothing tohelp bring it to pass.... — Alice B. Rice

 When we pray to God we must beseeking nothing—nothing....

 —Francis of Assisi

 God hears no more than the heartspeaks; and if the heart be dumb,
Godwill certainly be deaf....

 —Thomas B. Brooks

 There are moments when, whatever bethe attitude of the body, the soul
is onits knees....	— Victor Hugo

 The most powerful form of energy onecan generate is prayer. Prayer,
likeradium, is a luminous and self-generating

 form of energy....	— Alexis Carrel

 You can’t pray a lie....

 Prayer

 —Mark Twain

 dh

 The right way to pray for the answer toall your problems is to feel and
knowthat the In-dwelling God knows onlythe answer....	 —Joseph	Murphy

 Do our prayers come true? The answerlies in the way we pray. Let’s
pray in away that our prayers are true....

 —Ainsky Meares

 Let us not pray to be sheltered fromdangers but to be fearless in
facingthem. Let us not beg for the stilling ofthe pain but for the heart
to conquerit....	— Rabindranath Tagore

 The man who prays longest andloudest....is either trying to
convinceothers or he is trying to convincehimself....	— Fred Van
Amburgh

 More tears are shed over answeredprayers than unanswered ones....

 —Teresa of Avila

 Prayer is a state of continual grat-itude....	— John of Kronstadt

 The only thing worth praying for islight....	— Elinor MacDonald

 Prayer is a ladder on which thoughtsmount to God....

 —Abraham J. Heschel

 Prayer is the spirit speaking truth toTruth....	— Philip Bailey

 Rejoice evermore. Pray without ceas-ing. In everything give thanks; for
thisis the will of God....	— Paul of Tarsus

 You pray in your distress and in yourneed; would that you might pray
alsoin the fullness of your joy and inyour days of abundance....

 —Kahlil Gibran

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Prayer

 The prayer of power is not reaching toward anything above or around or
beneath. It is knowing that you are one with all there is. It is an
understanding that the substance of your being is the one and only
substance there is in the universe....	— H. B. Jeffery

 No cry that goes up from the depths of a sincere heart goes up in vain,
and if your prayer is fashioned aright, it will be answered by the god
in your own heart....	— Paul Brunton

 A heart-felt prayer is not recitation with the lips. It is a yearning
from within which expresses itself in every word, every act, nay every
thought of man....	-— Mohandas Gandhi

 A single grateful thought towards heaven is the most complete
prayer....

 —Minna von Bambelm

 Nothing is too small a subject for prayer, because nothing is too small
to be the subject of God’s care....

 —Henry T. Hamblin

 To pray....is to desire; but it is to desire what God would have us
desire. He who desires not from the bottom of his heart, offers a
deceitful prayer....

 —Francois Fenelon

 God is not a cosmic bell-boy for whom we can press a button to get
things....

 —Hairy E. Fosdick

 Pray as if it all depends on God, but work as if it all depends upon
you....

 —George W. Carver

 If we are holding anyone in condemnation as a human being, good or bad,
just or unjust, we have not made peace with our brother and we are not
ready for the prayer of communion with the Infinite....	— Joel
Goldsmith

 375  ♦?	 Prayer

 *8|K*	

 Truth is what prays in man, and a manis continually at prayer when he
livesaccording to truth....

 —Emanuel Swedenborg

 When you pray do not imitate thehypocrites: they love to say
theirprayers standing up in the temples andstreet corners for people to
seethem....they have had their reward. Butwhen you pray, go to your own
privateroom and pray to your Father in secretand you will be
rewarded....	— Jesus

 The simple heart that freely asks inlove, obtains....	— John G.
Whittier

 The journey of prayer is nothing moreor less than a gradual awakening
to thereality of recognizing what is alreadythere....	— Delia Smith

 Prayer as a means to effect a privateend is theft and meanness. It
supposesdualism in nature and consciousness.

 As soon as the man is one with God he

 will not beg. He will then see prayer inall action....	— Ralph W.
Emerson

 In prayer it is better to have a heartwithout words than words without
aheart....	— John Bunyan

 Complaint is the largest tribute heavenreceives....	— Jonathan Swift

 We, ignorant of ourselves, beg often

 our own harms, which the wise powersdeny us for our good....

 —William Shakespeare

 Do not pray for yourself: you do notknow what will help you....

 —Johann W. Goethe

 Prayer is exhaling the spirit of man andinhaling the spirit of God....

 —Edwin Keith

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Prayer

 The most important part of prayer is what we feel, not what we say....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 The inward sighs of humble penitence rise to the ear of heaven, when
pealed hymns are scattered to the common air....	— Joanna Baillie

 Prayer is like the turning-on of an electric switch. It does not create
the current; it simply provides a channel through which the electric
current may flow....	 —Max Handel

 When you make prayer a moment of truth in your life, the heavens open
in response....	— Anonymous

 I have been driven many times to my knees by the overwhelming
conviction that I had nowhere to go....

 —Abraham Lincoln

 Prayer is not flight; prayer is power. Prayer does not deliver a man
from some terrible situation; prayer enables a man to face and to master
a situation....	— William Barkley

 Prayer! I couldn’t live without it; I would have died a thousand
times if it had not been for my chance to talk it over with God, and
gain strength in it from Him....	— Dale Evans Rogers

 Most people when they pray, talk to God rather than with Him. They
don’t take the time to listen, in deep inner silence, for His
answer....

 — J. Donald Walters

 So many times we pray for gifts and favors when we should be praying
for the strength to work and the patience to wait....	— Fred Van
Amburgh

 Our prayers should be for a sound mind and a healthy body.... —
Juvenal

 376 *	Prayer

 	

 Prayer, if not the very gate of heaven, isthe key to let us into its
holiness andjoys....	— John Wesley

 The great thing is to pray, even if it bein a vague and inarticulate
fashion....

 —John W. Strutt

 If you would have God hear you whenyou pray, you must hear Him when
hespeaks....	— Thomas Brooks

 God punishes us mildly by ignoringour prayers and severely by
answeringthem....	— Richard J. Needham

 Pray to God, at the beginning of all thyworks, that so thou mayest
bring themall to a good ending.... — Xenophon

 Direct all your prayers to one thingonly, that is, to conform your
willperfectly to the Divine will....

 —Teresa of Avila

 To pray for a bodily cure and nothingmore is a limited and
limitingprocedure. Pray also to be enlightenedas to why this sickness
fell upon you....

 —Paul Brunton

 Prayer is nought but a rising desire ofthe heart unto God by
withdrawing ofthe heart from all earthly things....

 —Walter Hilton

 The greatest prayer is patience....

 —Gautama Buddha

 There is a very high rung only one manin a generation can reach: that
ofhaving learned all the wisdom, thenpraying like a child....

 —Mendel ofRymanov

 There is no prayer so blessed as the

 prayer which asks for nothing....

 —Oswald J. Simon

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Prayer 	♦?	 377	*	Prayer

 	      qfipp			 	

 The time of business does not with me differ from the time of
prayer....

 —Brother Lawrence

 Through prayer we work the world of Cause....	— Henry T. Hamblin

 Prayer is not verbal. It is from the heart. To merge into the Heart is
prayer....	— Ramana Maharshi

 The fewer the words the better prayer....	— Martin Luther

 Prayers should be the key of the day and the lock of the night....

 —English proverb

 We often want one thing and pray for another, not telling the truth
even to the gods....	— Seneca

 I have resolved to pray more and pray always; to pray in all places
where quietness inviteth, in the house, on the highway and on the
street, and know no street or passage in the city that may not witness
that I have not forgotten God....	— Thomas Browne

 The way you learn how to pray is to simply start praying....	
Shantidasa

 Every thought of God is prayer....

 —Rahel L. Vamhagen

 The deepest words of the heart find expression in secret prayer....

 —George Rees

 Prayer does not change God, but changes him who prays....

 —Soren Kierkegaard

 Prayer is the most perfect and most divine action that a rational soul
is capable of. It is of all other actions and duties the most
indispensably necessary....	— F. Augustine Baker

 He prays best who does not know that he is praying....	— St. Anthony

 We should never pray to God that He may grant what we desire, but that
His will may be accomplished in us....

 — St. Nilus

 Prayer is not a vain attempt to change God’s will: it is a filial
desire to learn God’s will and to share it. Prayer is not a substitute
for work: it is the secret spring and indispensable ally of all true
work....	— George Buttrick

 We are always telling God what he can do for us, but to many of us it
rarely occurs to ask God what we can do for Him....	— Johri Powell

 To truly pray is to use the law of polarity. Prayer is praise, thus
lifting the mind from fear, separation, censure and condemnation to
oneness, sameness and completion.... — -Sue Sikking

 True prayer is not begging or beseeching, it is right knowing. It is
not a matter of trying to make something happen, but of becoming aware
of that which already is. It is not a time to say “Please” but to
say “Thank you.”...

 —Elinor MacDonald

 What men usually ask God for when they pray to God is, that two and two
may not make four.... — Russian proverb

 It is an immature concept to think of prayer for personal gain. It
takes from one the responsibility of the conditions of one’s life.
Everything in creation is based on universal laws. Cause and effect work
perfectly in accordance with this law. Yet mankind attempts to escape
the hurt brought on by his disobedience to higher law by praying to God
to violate His own laws....

 —Cheryl Canfield

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Prayer

 378

 -  *Sfip Prayer

 Prayer must be neutral if it is to be effective; once you lose your
neutrality by asking for results, prayer becomes impotent.	— Anonymous

 Prayer is a force as real as terrestrial gravity....	— Alexis Carrel

 To pray to God for things-health, money, houses, companionship-would be
to look upon him as a servant whom you can command to obey your wish....

 —Joel Goldsmith

 Many people are praying for mountains to be moved when all they need to
do is climb them.... — Anonymous

 Prayer is always acceptable to God when dictated by the heart, for the
intention is everything in His sight; and the prayer of the heart is
preferable to one read from a book, however beautiful it may be, if read
with the lips rather than with the thought....

 —Allan Kardec

 We cannot approach prayer as we do everything else in our push-button,
instant society. There are no prayer pills....	— Janie Gustafson

 Prayer needs no speech. It is in itself independent of any sensuous
effort. But it must be combined with the utmost humility....

 —Mohandas Gandhi

 The highest prayer is not one of faith merely, it is demonstration....

 —Mary Baker Eddy

 You pray to what you love; for true, whole prayer is nothing but
love....

 —Augustine

 Prayer is conversation with God....

 —Josippon

 More things are wrought by prayer than the world dreams of....

 —Alfred L. Tennyson

 Only in prayer do we achieve that complete and harmonious assembly of
body, mind and spirit, which gives the frail human reed its unshakable
strength....	 —Alexis Carrel

 Supply does not come through prayer. It comes as a result of an
attitude of faith, a condition of mind and heart, in which the Invisible
is depended upon solely for all things necessary, instead of upon the
visible and earthly. Prayer in the form of begging and beseeching God to
kindly answer our requests is not capable of producing supply in
itself....	— Henry T. Hamblin

 If you ask of God, He gives you what you ask, but if you dare to live
Him, God gives Himself and all that you would have asked for....	—
Aurobindo

 When I pray, my heart is in my prayer....	— Henry W. Longfellow

 Prayer is not an easy way of getting what we want, but the only way of
becoming what God wants us to be....

 —Studdert Kennedy

 In the foothills of the Himalayas....one hears the prayer: “Oh Lord,
we know not what is good for us. Thou knowest what it is. For it we
pray.”...

 —Harry E. Fosdick

 People often say to me: “Pray for me.” And I think to myself: Why
ever do ye go out? Why not stop at home and mine your own treasure? For
indeed the whole truth is native in you....

 —Meister Eckhart

 Prayer is a concentration of positive thoughts....	 —Peace Pilgrim

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Prayer	*	379	*	Pride

 In the life of the Indian there is only one inevitable duty—the duty
of prayer—the daily recognition of the Unseen and Eternal. His daily
devotions were more necessary to him than daily food....	— Ohiyesa

 Our prayers should be for blessings in general, for God knows best what
is good for us....	 Socrates

 Prayer is the contemplation of the facts of life from the highest point
of view....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 Our prayers should be burning words coming forth from the furnace of a
heart filled with love....

 —Mother Teresa

 He who prays without knowing what he prays does not pray....

 —Maimon Ben Joseph

 M

  Pride 

 T

 here is perhaps not one of ournatural passions so hard to sub-

 due as pride. Disguise it, struggle withit, stifle it, mortify it as
much as onepleases, it is still alive, and will everynow and then peep
out and showitself....	— Benjamin Franklin

 Proud people breed sorrows for themselves....	— Emily Bronte

 The man who claims he is something special does so because he knows
that he is not. It is the inferior man who is always ambitious....

 —Ormond McGill

 The sun will set without your assistance....	— The Talmud

 When a proud man hears another praised, he thinks himself injured....

 —English proverb

 Humility does not strive; that’s all pride knows how to do.... 
—Anonymous

 Too much learning makes one proud. One must bend one’s
head....realizing the limitations of reason. It can only take you to the
gate and it has to be left behind when you enter the realm of the
Spirit. You have to unlearn what you have learnt and become as simple
and guileless as a child....

 —Papa Ramdas

 Pride is the mask of one’s own faults....

 —Hebrew saying

 The intelligent man who is proud of his intelligence is like the
condemned man who is proud of his large cell....

 —Simone Weil

 Outside show is a poor substitute for inner worth....	— Aesop

 Pride is ignorance. A little possession of....wealth, beauty, strength
or intelligence intoxicates a man....

 —Sivananda

 We are rarely proud when we are alone....	— Voltaire

 The opposite of pride is not humility. The opposite of pride is
shame....

 —Robert Schuller

 Of all the causes which conspire to blind man’s erring judgement, and
mislead the mind, what the weak head with strongest bias rules, is
pride....

 —Alexander Pope

 Pride alone fastens onto good, to the end that it shall perish....	—
Augustine

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Pride 	♦?	 380	*	Pridt

  ^	

 When pride cometh, then cometh shame; but with the lowly is wisdom....

 —Old Testament

 The worst man is the one who sees himself as the best.... — Arabian
saying

 The highest and most lofty trees have the most reason to dread the
thunder....

 —Charles Rollin

 False pride is an all-consuming vice. Personal pride is a virtue....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 Be very slow to believe that you are wiser than all others; it is a
fatal but common error. Where one has been saved by a true estimate of
another’s weakness, thousands have been destroyed by the false
appreciation of their own strength....

 —Charles C. Colton

 Pride is a vice, which pride itself inclines every man to find in
others, and to overlook in himself....

 —Samuel Johnson

 Evil can have no beginnings, but from pride; nor any end, but from
humility....	— William Law

 He who places implicit confidence in his genius will find himself some
day utterly deflated and deserted....

 —Benjamin Disraeli

 Whoever has in his heart so much as a rice-grain of pride cannot enter
into Paradise....	— Mohammed

 All the other vices flee God; pride alone rises up against Him....	—
Boethius

 A  proud man is always hard to be pleased, because he hath too great
expectations from others....

 —Richard Baxter

 The beginning of the pride of man is tc fall from God....for pride is
the be ginning of all sin: he that holdeth it, shall be filled with
maledictions, and it shall ruin him in the end....

 —Old Testament

 God cannot be realized if there is the slightest trace of pride....

 —Ramakrishna

 The cause of bigness has prevented proper thinking....	— Louis
Brandeis

 Whosoever shall exalt himself shall be abased; and he that shall humble
himself shall be exalted....	— Jesus

 Staring up to admire your own halo creates a pain in the neck....

 —Harold Coffin

 When the proud man thinks he is humble his case is hopeless....

 —Thomas Merton

 If you are discouraged, it is a sign of pride, because it shows you
trust in your own powers....	— Mother Teresa

 Whenever you hear someone inflating his ego by speaking of his good
works, walk away quickly and do not encourage him any more....

 —Ronald Beesley

 Pride and conceit were the original sin of man....	— Alain Lesage

 The most difficult secret for a man to keep is his opinion of
himself....

 —Marcel Pagnol

 Pride is a negative virtue; it exists to glorify humility....	—
Sivananda

 Pride has no more value than a cock crowing on a dung heap....

 —Anonymous

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Pride 	♦?	 381	*	Principle

 	 Tfipp		

 A proud man is seldom a grateful man, for he never thinks he gets as
much as he deserves....	— Henry W. Beecher

 &

  Principle 

 T

 his is an eternal and fundamentalprinciple, inherent in all things,

 in every system of philosophy, in everyreligion and in every science.
There isno getting away from the law of love. Itis feeling that imparts
vitality tothought. Feeling is desire, and desire islove. Thought
impregnated with lovebecomes invincible....	— Charles Haanel

 If you focus on principles, you empower everyone who understands those
principles to act without constant monitoring, evaluating, correcting or
controlling....	— Stephen R. Covey

 There is only one Principle, and this is Good. There is no principle of
evil. If there were a principle of evil, evil would be positive and not
negative, and therefore could never be overcome, because it would be
eternal and unchanging....	— Henry T. Hamblin

 A fad lives its life in a few weeks; a philosophy lives through
generations and centuries; a principle, forever....

 —William G. Jordan

 Once possessed of the principle, it is equally easy to make forty or
forty thousand applications of it....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 Principles are like seeds; they are little things which do much good,
if the mind that receives them has the right attitudes....	— Seneca

 Most people would prefer to fight for their principles than live up to
them....

 —Anonymous

 Search for a rock, a principle, and having found it, get it under your
feet and stand erect upon it, until at last, immovably fixed upon it,
you succeed in defying the fury of the waves and storms of
selfishness....	— James Allen

 If the principle is right, the details will take care of themselves....

 —Napoleon Bonaparte

 Back of every noble life there are principles which have fashioned
it....

 —George H. Lo rimer

 Where true principles lack, the results are imperfect....	— Henry
Madathanas

 God is the principle behind everything that exists today. The principle
behind a thing is Spirit; and Spirit is Omnipotent, Omnipresent and
Omniscient. God is one Mind that is both the direct and the directing
cause of all the good that we see about us....

 —Baird Spalding

 Rely on principles....

 —Epictetus

 He who floats with the current, who does not guide himself according to
higher principles, who has no ideal, no convictions—such a man is....a
thing moved, instead of a living and moving being—an echo, not a
voice....

 —Henri F. Amiel

 It is easier to produce ten volumes of philosophical writings than to
put one principle into practice....

 —Leo Tolstoy

 Principle is a passion for truth and right....	— William Haditt

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Principle 	♦?	 3

 Many men do not allow their principles to take root, but pull them up
every now and then, as children do the flowers they have planted, to see
if they are growing....	— Henry W. Longfellow

 A new principle is an inexhaustible source of new ideas....

 —Luc de Clapiers Vauvenargues

 The moment you use a principle, it will work for you whether it is a
principle of mathematics or of the mind....

 —Sue Sikking

 The Principle is an infinity which nothing can augment or diminish....

 —Chuang Tse

 Old cranks have practiced all their lives, just as old saints have
likewise practiced all their lives. They just practiced different life
principles....

 —John Powell

 One must not make even principles so set that one cannot alter them....

 —Hazrat Inayat Khan

 He who merely knows right principles is not equal to him who loves
them....

 —Confucius

 When a society is perishing, the wholesome advice to give to those who
would restore it is to recall it to the principles from which it
sprang....

 —Pope Leo XIII

 We have always found that, if the principles were right, the area over
which they were affected did not matter. Size is only a matter of the
multiplication table....

 —Henry Ford

 Principles have achieved more victories than horsemen or chariots....

 — W. M. Paxton

 2 *	Principle

 Principles are like a seed in the ground, they must continually be
visited with heavenly influences or else your life will be a barren
field....

 —Thomas Traherne

 An unprincipled life is a tragic waste indeed....	— Sivananda

 The more clearly a principle is understood by the intellect, the more
inexcusable is the neglect to put it into practice....	— Allan Kardec

 A problem which is not met with higher principles will simply create
another problem. It cannot happen otherwise....	— Vernon Howard

 Principles are eternal....

 —William J. Bryan

 No single principle can answer all of life’s complexities....

 —Felix Frankfurter

 Nothing can bring you peace but the triumph of principles....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 There are principles which govern our life—they are the principles of
Life. If our life is lived according to these principles all is well,
and harmony reigns in place of vexation and struggle....	 —Henry T.
Hamblin

 All that there is to the making of a successful, happy, and beautiful
life, is the knowledge and application of a few simple, root
principles....

 —James Allen

 Principles don’t die. They aren’t here one day and gone the next.
They can’t be destroyed by fire, earthquake or theft. Principles are
deep, fundamental truths, classic truths....

 —Stephen R. Covey

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Problems

  Problems 

 A

 nyone can carry his burden,however heavy, until nightfall.

 Anyone can do his work, however hard,for a day. Anyone can live
sweetly,patiently, lovingly and purely until thesun goes down.... 
—Lucy Comellsser i

 Problems are messages....

 —Shakti Gawain

 Mountains are removed by first shoveling away the small stones....

 —Anonymous

 If you have a problem, take the matter to God in prayer, and visualize
it in God’s hands. Then leave it, knowing it is in the best possible
hands, and turn your attention to other things....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 We....have no need to solve or figure out a solution to the problem of
life. The manifestation is not a problem to figure out; it has no
solutions, because it contains no problems; it has no answers, for it
contains no questions....

 —A Spiritual Warrior

 Don’t hope for a life without problems. An easy life results in a
judgemental and lazy mind....	— Kyong Ho

 Behind every dark happening, behind every difficulty, there is a hidden
blessing....	— White Eagle

 You are yourself your biggest problem. You cannot hand it over to
anyone else, be he savior or master, and escape from it, except in
delusive imagination or in erroneous belief....	— Paul Brunton

 3 *	Problems

 Stand back from the mountain of problems, refuse to acknowledge that
they are yours, and they will dissolve and disappear before your
eyes....

 —Annamalai Swami

 When a child encounters something he does not want, he has all kinds of
maneuvers to avoid it, such as crying, hiding or fighting....Unless we
are taught to face our problems directly and work through them, the
pattern of avoidance will be repeated....it can be a natural, accepted
way to act....

 —Tarthang Tulku

 You have no problems, though you think you have....

 —A Course In Miracles

 Every problem contains within itself the seeds of its own solution....

 —Stanley Arnold

 Man needs difficulties; they are necessary for health....	— Carl Jung

 Most problems do not stand alone but are only smaller parts of larger
problems....	— Marvin Minsky

 The second assault on the same problem should come from a totally
different direction....	— Tom Hirshfield

 Those who in this world have the courage to try and solve in their own
lives new problems of life, are the ones who raise society to
greatness....

 —Rabindranath Tagore

 The problems of the world, AIDS, cancer, nuclear war, pollution, are,
finally, no more soluble than the problem of a tree which has borne
fruit: the apples are overripe and they are falling—what can be done?
Nothing can be done, and nothing needs to be done....

 —David Mamet

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Problems 	♦?	 384

 	 *8P?	-

 We are all faced with a series of great opportunities brilliantly
disguised as impossible situations....

 —Charles R. Swindoll

 Troubles are usually the brooms and shovels that smooth the road to a
good man’s fortune....	— St. Basil

 When everything seems to be going against the wind, remember that the
airplane takes off against the wind, not with it....	— Henry Ford

 Suicide is no release from one’s problems....All your problems and
troubles are in your thinking; so you can see that by losing your body
you can’t lose your problems, for they are not physical....	— James
B. Schafer

 What appears to you to be a misfortune is not always such; for the good
which it is destined to work out is often greater than the seeming
evil....

 —Allan Kardec

 Each problem has hidden in it an opportunity so powerful that it
literally dwarfs the problem. The great success stories were created by
people who recognized a problem and turned it into an opportunity....
— Anonymous

 Don’t fight your problem. Know that there is a solution.... —
Joseph Murphy

 Obstacles are a natural part of life, just as boulders are a natural
part of the course of the river. The river does not complain or get
depressed because there are boulders in its path....

 —I Ching

 Whatever your problem, no matter how difficult, you can release
spiritual power sufficient to solve your problem. The secret is—pray
and believe....

 —Norman V. Peale

 Problems

 Mistake, error is the discipline through which we advance....

 —William E. Channing

 Everywhere you trip is where the treasure lies....	— Norman Lear

 Never solve a problem from its original perspective.... — Charles C.
Thompson

 The worst thing in your life may contain seeds of the best. When you
see crises as an opportunity, your life becomes not easy, but more
satisfying....	— Joe Kogel

 Every mistake is your best teacher. One has to evolve through sins and
mistakes. They are inevitable....

 —Sivananda

 Every crucial experience can be regarded as a setback—or the start of
a new kind of development....

 —Mary R. Rinehart

 All of your problems and difficulties are the instruction of life,
pointing out to you where you are wrong, where you are lacking in wisdom
and understanding, where you need to change so that you can open
yourself to a greater degree of good than you have yet experienced....
— Elinor MacDonald

 Trouble is where you make it....

 —John A. Schindler

 Some people wish for a life of no problems, but I would never wish such
a life for any of you. What I wish for is the great inner strength to
solve your problems meaningfully and grow. Problems are learning and
growing experiences....	— Peace Pilgrim

 Man’s problem in the last analysis is man himself....	— Robert Lynd

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Problems 	♦?	 3

 If there is a problem in your life that you would solve, do not set
your will to work on it. You will conquer this problem in the end, not
by fighting it, but by understanding it. The reason it exists in the
first place is because of the lack of understanding....

 — U. S. Anderson

 Every problem faced, even if it can’t be solved satisfactorily, is a
moral victory; it strengthens your character and makes future problems
easier to tackle....	— Harvey Day

 A  man cannot help going wrong and making mistakes as long as he is
ignorant of his true nature....

 —Paramananda

 Anyone who proposes to do good must not expect people to roll stones
out of his way, but must accept his lot calmly if they even roll a few
more on it....

 —Albert Schweitzer

 Grapple with each new difficulty as it comes up. Wrestle with it till
you down it, if it takes until the break of day. Get on top of every
difficulty that comes your way. Otherwise, it will get on top of you....
— Archer Brown

 There are two ways of meeting difficulties: you alter the difficulties,
or you alter yourself to meet them....

 —Phyllis Bottome

 Regard setbacks as a challenge to greater success, not as a reason for
failure. The full scope of our ability and ingenuity is usually only
called forth by problems....	— R. J. Heathom

 A good many gifted people would accomplish more in life if thorns grew
on laurels, so they would be harder to rest upon....	— Rash
Middlecombe

 5  ♦?	 Problems

 If it hurts, you’re doing it wrong. If you insist—it’s going to
hurt you even more. It will not stop hurting until you alleviate the
cause....

 —Arlin C. Hauser

 The first problem for all of us....is not to learn, but to unlearn....

 —Gloria Steinem

 Recognizing a problem is the first step to solving it....Some problems
cannot be solved but you can make peace with them....	— Sonya Friedman

 Problems cannot be solved with words, but only through experience....

 —Alice Miller

 The man who has no more problems to solve is out of the game....

 —Elbert Hubbard

 Every adventure creates its own particular set of difficulties. You
cannot protect yourself from problems by living a cautious life, but you
may die of boredom....	— Robert Schuller

 The wonderful thing about having problems is that they give us
something obvious to work on....anything that causes us to contact God
is a blessing....	— Walter Starcke

 Difficulties, like work, are blessings in disguise....To the healthy
man, difficulties should act as a tonic. They should open us to greater
exertion. They should strengthen our willpower....

 — B. C. Forbes

 Every human being is a problem in search of a solution....

 —Ashley Montagu

 A  problem is not solved, a disease not spirited away by denying that
it exists....	— Paul Brunton

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Problems	*	386

 	up-

 To every disadvantage there is a corresponding advantage....

 —dement Stone

 The best way to solve a complex problem is to break it into pieces and
solve it one piece at a time....

 —Anonymous

 The average man takes life as a trouble. He is in a chronic state of
irritation at the whole performance. He does not learn to differentiate
between troubles and difficulties, usually, until some real trouble
bowls him over. He fusses about pinpricks until a mule kicks him. Then
he learns the difference....

 —Herbert Casson

 Superficiality is the curse of our age. The doctrine of instant
satisfaction is a primary spiritual problem....

 —Richard Foster

 The significant problems we face cannot be solved at the same level of
thinking which created them....

 —Albert Einstein

 Life affords no higher pleasure than that of surmounting difficulties,
passing from one step of success to another....	— Samuel Johnson

 There is no problem unless you create one....	— Gayatri Devi

 It is not the obstacle itself, but the thoughts about the obstacle that
dismay us....	— Eastern proverb

 Difficulties are the things that show what men are....The greater the
difficulty, the more glory in surmounting it. Skillful pilots gain their
reputation from storms and tempests....

 —Epictetus

 The burden becomes light which is cheerfully borne....	— Ovid

 Problems

 There is no such thing as a problem without a gift for you in its
hands. You seek problems because you need their gifts....	— Richard
Bach

 We only think when we are confronted with a problem....	— John Dewey

 It makes no difference how deeply seated may be the trouble, how
hopeless the outlook, how muddled the tangle, how great the mistake. A
sufficient realization of love will dissolve it all....	— Emmet Fox

 How many problems have you got? They are problems of your own making,
because you refuse to allow the spirit life to enter in partnership with
our earthly life....	— Ronald Beesley

 We can magnify our problems and we can minimize them....

 —Paramananda

 All the greatest and most important problems of life are fundamentally
insoluble....They can never be solved, but only outgrown....	— Carl
Jung

 When life gives you lemons, make lemonade....	— Esco Brown

 When you get into a tight place and everything goes against you till it
seems as though you could not hold on for one minute longer, never give
up then, for that is just the place that the tide will turn.... —
Harriet Beecher Stowe

 The tribulations of life are trials or expiations; happy are those who
bear them without murmuring, for great will be their reward....

 —Allan Kardec

 Most of our problems are test questions....	— Henry S. Haskins

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Problems	*	5

 Life is a wonderfully complex problem for the individual, until,
someday, in a moment of illumination, he awakens to the great
realization that he can make it simpler—never quite simple, but always
simpler....	— William G. Jordan

 Do not be intimidated by problems. A problem is not a problem, only a
challenge to be surmounted. Defiantly hoist your sails and sail into the
prevailing wind. There are no storms sufficient to scuttle a ship when a
positive attitude is taken....

 —Shantidasa

 A problem is a chance for you to do your best....	— Duke Ellington

 The solution to the problem of the day is the awakening of the
consciousness of humanity to the divinity within....

 —Hazrat Inayat Khan

 To be resentful of a problem only makes it heavier; to recognize and
appreciate it always makes it lighter....

 —Anonymous

 Personal problems are never solved by dwelling on them, but always by
forgetting them in serving a larger interest....	— Sahajananda

 Each has his own problems to work out. Each must work out his own
problems. Each must grow the insight that will enable him to see what
the causes are that have brought the unfavorable conditions, and to set
into operation forces that will bring about a different set of
conditions....

 —Ralph W. Trine

 Progress is the mother of problems....

 — G. K. Chesterton

 Misfortunes are great, but human beings are even greater than
misfortune....	— Rabindranath Tagore

 7  ♦?	 Problems

 What is it that troubles you? Death? Or because your foot has stumbled
on the earth? There is no man who has never stumbled....	— Schemuel
Ha-Nagid

 If you can get people to see the comic side of their tragedy, you can
also get them to look at solving their problems....	— James Fadiman

 The longer we dwell on our misfortunes, the greater is their power to
harm us....	— Voltaire

 Need and struggle are what excite and inspire us....	— William James

 There is no height to which you cannot climb; no difficulty which you
cannot overcome; no failure which cannot be retrieved; no disease which
cannot be healed....The difficulties and problems of life become like
rungs on the ladder for each one raises us up higher....

 —Henry T. Hamblin

 Trust would settle every problem now....	 —A Course In Miracles

 If a great problem is set before you, this merely indicates that you
have the great inner strength to solve a great problem....	— Peace
Pilgrim

 Helping others is the best way to rid yourself of your own troubles....

 —Edgar Cayce

 You may ponder internally over your personal problems and try to seek
guidance, but it may be only wasting your energy to think over the
problems of others....	 —Maharaj	C.	Singh

 All your problems arise because you have defined and therefore limited
yourself. When you do not think yourself to be this or that, all
conflict

 ceases....	— Nisargadatta

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Problems	* 	j

 Misfortune is never mournful to the soul that accepts it; for such do
always see that in every cloud is an angel’s face....	— Eusebius
Hieronymus

 The best years of your life are the ones in which you decide your
problems are your own. You don’t blame them on your mother, the
ecology or the President. You realize that you control your own
destiny....	— Albert Ellis

 To walk against adversity, to bring forth the inner strength, to cope
with the problems of life, to walk against the wind of life and push
against it makes you breathe hard and gives you strength....	— Hilda
Charlton

 Whenever a problem appears in our experience, it is because we are
strong enough to meet it successfully and overcome it. It is not there
to punish us....	— Elinor MacDonald

 If all misfortunes of mankind were cast into a public stock, in order
to be equally distributed among the whole species, those who now think
themselves the most unhappy would prefer the share they already
possess....

 —Socrates

 Troubles are often the tools by which God fashions us for better
things....

 —Henry W. Beecher

  Prosperity 

 P

 rosperity, alas! is often but anoth-er name for pride....

 —Lydia H. Sigourney

 Prosperity is more of an ordeal than adversity, especially sudden
prosperity....	— Yiddish proverb

 8  ♦?	 Prosperity

 It is very difficult for the prosperous to be humble....	— Jane
Austen

 Prosperity is only an instrument to be used, not a deity to be
worshipped....

 —Calvin Coolidge

 What the world regards as prosperity often hides the most poignant
sorrows....	— Allan Kardec

 It is a mistake to think that it is only in the sunshine of prosperity
one can find happiness. Rare and beautiful blessings blossom “in that
holy ground where

 the shadows fall.”...	— Alice H. Rice

 All sunshine makes the desert....

 —Arabian proverb

 We are corrupted by prosperity....

 —Tacitus

 Everything in the world may be endured, except only a succession of
prosperous days....

 —Johann W. Goethe

 In prosperity, when the stream of life flows in accordance with our
wishes, let us diligently avoid all arrogance, haughtiness and pride....
— Cicero

 Prosperity is a feeble reed....

 —Daniel d’Ancheres

 Prosperity destroys fools and endangers the wise....	— Henry Bohn

 We become wiser in the midst of adversity; it is prosperity that takes
away righteousness....	— Seneca

 Pride waxes in prosperity, nor is it easy to bear good fortune with
equal mind....	— Ovid

 Prosperity is a great teacher; adversity is a greater....	— William
Hazlitt

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Prosperity

 Prosperity can change man’s nature; and seldom is anyone cautious
enough to resist the effects of good fortune....

 —Quintas C. Rufus

 Adversity is sometimes hard upon a man, but for one man who can stand
prosperity, there are a hundred that will stand adversity....

 —Thomas Carlyle

 Nothing is harder to direct than a man in prosperity; nothing more
easily managed than one in adversity....

 —Plutarch

 No man knows of what stuff he is made until prosperity and ease try
him....

 — A. P. Gouthey

 One is never more on trial than in the moment of excessive good
fortune....

 —Lewis Wallace

 The mind that is much elevated with prosperity, and cast down by
adversity, is generally abject and base....

 —Epicurus

 This is the law of prosperity: When apparent adversity comes, be not
cast down by it, but make the best of it, and always look forward for
better things, for conditions more prosperous....

 —Ralph W. Trine

 &

 Purpose

 e are all designed for a specificpurpose; we all have some-

 thing for which each of us, and each ofus alone, is responsible....

 —Naomi Stephan

 389  ♦?	 Purpose

 ‘ISP? 			

 The real purpose of the world is to useit to correct your unbelief....

 —A Course In Miracles

 The only useful purpose of this birth isto turn within and realize.
There isnothing else to do....

 —Ramana Maharshi

 Those who have failed to work towardthe truth have missed the purpose
ofliving....	— Gautama Buddha

 Learn to get in touch with silence with-in yourself and know that
everythingin this life has a purpose....

 —Elisabeth Kubler-Ross

 The purpose of life....is to live it, to tasteexperience to the utmost,
to reach outeagerly and without fear for newer andricher experience....
— Eleanor Roosevelt

 Where there is purpose there is ego.Play is no purpose. It gives joy.
Playitself is the purpose. No object is to begained by playing....	—
Papa Ramdas

 Life is everlasting. Everything thathappens in your life has a
purpose....

 —George Anderson

 The purpose of life is to unlearn whathas been learned and to
rememberwhat has been forgotten....

 —Sufi saying

 Man has come here with a definitepurpose. Life is not meant merely
foreating, drinking and procreating....

 —Sivananda

 The purpose of life is to acquaint man with himself.... — Ralph W.
Emerson

 Strong lives are motivated by dynamic purposes....	— Kenneth
Hildebrand

 ct?

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890       shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890    
  shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Purpose

 390

 - -

 Purpose

 Nothing contributes so much to tranquilizing the mind as a steady
purpose-point on which the soul may fix its intellectual eye....

 —Mary W. Shelley

 A  man without a purpose is like a ship without a rudder....Have a
purpose in life, and having it, throw into your work such strength of
mind and muscle as God has given you....

 —Thomas Carlyle

 To have a purpose that is worthwhile, and that is steadily being
accomplished, that is one of the secrets of a life that is worth
living....

 —Herbert Casson

 A  life without purpose is a languid drifting thing. Every day we ought
to renew our purpose, say to ourselves: this day let us make a sound
beginning, for what we have hitherto done is nought. Our improvement is
in proportion to our purpose....

 —Thomas a Kempis

 The purpose of man’s life is not happiness, but worthiness....

 —Felix Adler

 There is no road to success but through a clear strong purpose. Nothing
can take its place....A purpose is the eternal condition of success....

 —Theodore Monger

 The great and glorious masterpiece of man is to know how to live to
purpose....	— Michel Montaigne

 Fixedness of purpose is at the root of all successful efforts, whether
in things worldly or spiritual....

 —James Allen

 Purpose is what gives life meaning....

 —Charles Parkhurst

 I finally learned that my main purpose was to have no purpose, to learn
how to give up effort....	— Joanna Field

 Happiness is the meaning and the purpose of life, the whole aim and end
of human existence....	— Aristotle

 What men want is not talent; it is purpose; in other words, not the
power to achieve, but the will to labor....

 —Edward Bulwer-Lytton

 The human heart refuses to believe in a universe without a
purpose....What are the aims which are at the same time duties? They are
the perfecting of ourselves and the happiness of others....

 —Immanuel Kant

 Firmness of purpose is one of the most necessary sinews of character,
and one of the best instruments of success....

 —Philip D. Stanhope

 The true purpose is to see things as they are, to observe things as
they are, and to let everything go as it goes....

 —Shunryu Suzuki

 Man’s destined purpose is to conquer old habits, to overcome the evil
in him and to restore good to its rightful place....	— Mohandas Gandhi

 When a man does not know what harbor he is heading for, no wind is the
right wind....	— Seneca

 You have a purpose only as long as you are not complete; until then,
completeness, perfection, is the purpose. But when you are complete in
yourself, fully integrated within and without, then you enjoy the
universe; you do not labor at it....	— Nisargadatta

 Clear purpose is half of the struggle....

 -—Sevakram

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Purpose 	♦?	 3

 Divine purpose for us is learning to live in harmony with God’s
will....When you know your part in the scheme of things, in the Divine
Plan, there is never a feeling of inadequacy. You are always given the
resources for any situation, any obstacle. There is no strain; there is
always security....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 Your sole business in life is to attain God-realization. All else is
useless and worthless....	— Sivananda

 Man is not born to solve the problems of the universe, but to find out
what he has to do; and to restrain himself within the limits of
comprehension....

 —Johann  IV.  Goethe

 There is no defeat save your own inherent weakness of purpose....

 —Richard Pape

  M. 

  Relationship 

 T

 he easiest relationship for me iswith 10,000 people. The hardest is

 with one....	— Joan Baez

 A relationship is like a garden. If it is to thrive it must be watered
regularly. Special care must be given, taking into account the seasons
as well as any unpredictable weather. New seeds must be sown and weeds
must be pulled....	— John Gray

 So many persons think divorce a panacea for every ill, who find out,
when they try it, that the remedy is worse than the disease....

 —Dorothy Dix

 Loves which change are passing whims....	— Eliphas Levi

 1  ♦?	 Relationship

 Too many people are more concerned with what they can get out of
marriage than with what they can give to it....

 —Elinor MacDonald

 The difficulty with relationships is that they blur boundaries that are
used to determine who we really are....

 —Anonymous

 In order for a relationship to be really successful in the widest sense
of the term, you have to want God more than you want your partner....

 —Stephen Levine

 Couples who love each other can communicate a thousand things without
ever once talking....	— Chinese proverb

 When we enter into any relationship with the premise that we are empty
and the other person will fill us in, we are sure to fail. We can only
win when we proceed from wholeness....

 —Alan Cohen

 If you would learn the secret of right relations look only for the
divine in people and things, and leave the rest to God....	— J. Allen
Boone

 Love is a drama of contradictions....

 —Franz Kafka

 The fact that one is married by no means proves that one is a mature
person....	— Clara Thompson

 There is no way to take the danger out of human relationships....

 —Barbara G. Harrison

 It is only when we no longer compulsively need someone that we can have
a real relationship with them....

 —Anthony Storr

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Relationship

 392

 -   c iSp J  -

 Relationship

 The most satisfying relationships are intimate. They enable us to be
known and accepted as we truly are. A friend is someone with whom you
feel comfortable being yourself....

 —David G. Myers

 You can’t lose when you simply appreciate and grow from a
relationship....

 —Wayne Dyer

 Associations formed in this earth life are not necessarily for the
duration of the life span. Separation takes place constantly, and as
long as it takes place lovingly not only is there no spiritual injury,
but spiritual progress may actually be helped....	— Peace Pilgrim

 Love is mutually feeding each other, not living on another like a
ghoul....

 —Bessie Head

 In almost every marriage there is a selfish and unselfish partner. A
pattern is set up and soon becomes inflexible, of one person always
making the demands and one person always giving away....	— Iris
Murdoch

 A successful marriage is an edifice that must be rebuilt daily....

 —Andre Maurois

 Relationship is a mirror into which your inner being gets reflected....

 —Vimala Thakar

 Human love is often the encounter of two weaknesses.... — Francois
Mauriac

 Two persons who love each other are in a place more holy than the
interior of a church....	— William L. Phelps

 Individuals seeking relationships are often attempting to get another
to fill up their emptiness....

 —Stephen H. Wolinsky

 Lovers dream in courtship, but in wedlock awake....	— Alexander Pope

 I

 The best friend is likely to acquire the best wife, because a good
marriage is based on the talent for friendship....

 —Friedrich W. Nietzsche

 The essential ingredients for relationship are affection and
commitment....

 —Robert A. Johnson

 It is easier to live through someone else than to become complete
yourself....

 —Betty Friedan

 No man can be friends with a woman he finds attractive. He always wants
to have sex with her. Sex is always out there. Friendship is ultimately
doomed and that is the end of the story....

 —Nora Ephron

 Pity the selfishness of lovers: it is brief; a forlorn hope; it is
impossible....

 —Elizabeth Bowen

 A  man falls in love through his eyes, a woman through her ears....

 —Woodrow Wyatt

 In every union there is a mystery....

 —Henri F. Amiel

 If a relationship is built on ‘what am I getting?’ all is lost....
— Ossie Davis

 There is so much you cannot understand in human relationship; often you
have to endure what seems to be injustice. But those....who can take the
long view, can always tell you that all crooked places will be made
straight and all injustice will be righted....

 —White Eagle

 Marriage is a rooted thing, a growing and flowering thing that must be
tended faithfully....	— Donald C. Peattie

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Relationship	*	393 	♦?	
Relationship

 The married state is....the completest image of heaven and hell we are
capable of receiving in this life....

 —Richard Steele

 The inner progressiveness of love between two human beings is a most
marvelous thing; it cannot be found by looking for it or by passionately
wishing for it. It is sort of Divine accident....

 —Hugh Walpole

 There are only two valid reasons to get married. One is for the care
and raising of children....The only other valid reason....is for the
friction....

 — M. Scott Peck

 Life is a series of relationships—being together and separating....

 —JoAnn Kelley Smith

 Marriage is a box to put your love in. It can hold it safe and warm
forever, the door closed against all evil. Or it can be a cage. The box
is of your own making....	— Mary Williams

 The notion of marrying for love is one of the most pathological
experiments that a civilized society has ever imagined, namely, the
basing of marriage, which is lasting, upon romance, which is a passing
fancy....

 —M.  Denis DeRougemont

 It is impossible to love and be wise at the same time....	— Francis
Bacon

 Now we will feel no rain for each of us will be shelter for the other.
Now we will feel no cold for each of us will be warmth for the other.
Now there will be no more loneliness for each of us will be companion to
the other. There is only one life before us and our seasons will be long
and good....

 —Apache Wedding Blessing

 Marry, and with luck it may go well. But when a marriage fails, then
those who marry live at home in hell....

 —Euripides

 Ending a relationship on the physical level is not failing, anymore
than someone dying represents a failure, although it certainly ends the
physical relationship....	— Wayne Dyer

 Neither husband nor wife has any rights; they have only the privilege
of giving, but they have no right to demand anything of the other....

 —Joel Goldsmith

 When our marriages no longer inspire enthusiasm....it is because the
sacred is missing in our lives....	— MarkGerzon

 Deceive not thyself by overexpecting happiness in a married state....

 —Thomas Fuller

 For one human being to love another: that is perhaps the most difficult
of our tasks....	— Rainer M. Rilke

 In all our struggles with relationships, we learn there is a point
where we release others to a pattern of their own making....	— Carol
W. Parrish-Harra

 No relationship can provide everything needed for the complete
experience of being yourself....	— David Viscott

 Relationships fail because of unfulfilled expectations, and the greater
the expectation, the more likely the failure....	— Anonymous

 The consuming desire of most human beings is deliberately to plant
their whole life in the hands of some other person. I would describe
this method of searching for happiness as immature....

 —Quentin Crisp

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Relationship	*	3

 There are no snares more dangerous than those which lurk under the
guise of duty or the name of relationship....

 —Cicero

 Our primary relationship is really with ourselves....Our relationships
with other people constantly reflect exactly where we are in the
process....

 —Shakti Gawain

 Almost all our relationships begin and most of them continue as forms
of mutual exploitation, a mental or physical barter, to be terminated
when one or both parties run out of goods....	— W. H. Auden

 When two people marry and give all their love to each other they are
building a wall around themselves. They have no love left for God or the
Self....	 —Saradamma

 Love is an ideal thing, marriage is a real thing. A confusion of the
real with the ideal never goes unpunished....

 —Johann W. Goethe

 The secret of forming a successful relationship is for both parties to
win....

 —John Gray

 Sometimes dignity in a marriage can best be preserved when the partners
separate before all love dies—in order to work on their individual
problems and in order not to hurt each other any more than they already
have....

 —Sara Kay Cohen

 Even positive relationships are easily subject to fracture....

 —Robert Schuller

 Seldom or never does a marriage develop into an individual relationship
smoothly and without crisis. There is no birth of consciousness without
pain....	 —Carl Jung

 4 *	Relationship

 In the face of the relationship with God, all other relations dwindle
into nothing....the question of any domestic relationship....cannot
arise....

 —Papa Ramdas

 If we did not look to marriage as the principle source of happiness,
fewer marriages would end in tears....

 —Anthony Storr

 The false promise is that another person giving you love will solve
your problems, make you happy, give you security you desire, make you
feel good about yourself....

 —Jordan & Margaret Paul

 The reality is that all relationships inevitably will be dissolved and
broken....	 —James Lynch

 The purpose of a relationship is not for two incomplete people to
become one, but rather for two complete people to join together for the
greater glory of God....	 —Marianne Williamson

 A  marriage is like a long trip in a tiny rowboat; if one passenger
starts to rock the boat, the other has to steady it; otherwise, they
will go to the bottom together....	 —David Reuben

 Chains do not hold a marriage together. It is threads, hundreds of tiny
threads which sew people together through the years....

 —Simone Signoret

 I believe that we should wise up and recognize that a marriage is a
small business and that married couples are business partners....	
—David Hopkinson

 Love does not consist in gazing at each other, but in looking outward
in the same direction....

 —Antoine de Saint-Exupery

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065    Relationship 

 Sometimes we may find that ourpartner continues to seek satisfactionin
ways that we cannot live with.Nevertheless, when we decide to go ourown
way we still have a choice as tohow we separate. We can separate withbad
feelings, blaming the other’s faultsand unacceptable behavior. Or we
canseparate with forgiveness, love andunderstanding....	— Peter
Russell

 Relationships are not always easy.Misunderstandings happen. Theycannot
be healed by dwelling on hurts,but by turning to the consciousness
oflove and understanding. Love heals allwounds....	— Norma Hawkins

 All of life is relationship....

 —Swami Rama

 Is not marriage an open question, when it is alleged, from the
beginning of the world, that such as are in the institution wish to get
out, and such as are out wish to get in....

 —Ralph  W.  Emerson

 When two people get close to each other, there is generally an
explosion in their lives. Most of the recrimination between quarreling
lovers and spouses involves the collision of power and love....	—
Robert A. Johiison

 Some people spend much less time picking a life partner than they spend
picking out a car. They just drift into these relationships by this
thing we call love....	— Peace Pilgrim

 It is not the lack of love but lack of friendship that makes unhappy
marriages.... — Friedrich W. Nietzsche

 There is no relationship that is more important than your relationship
with yourself—it affects all others and everything that you do in
life....

 —Sharon Garell

 395  ♦?	 Relationship

 Your most important relationship is with yourself; most people form
relationships to avoid themselves....

 —Anonymous

 The highest love a person can have for you is to wish for you to evolve
into the best person you can be. No one owns you, no matter what your
relationship....	— David Viscott

 Don’t attempt to perpetuate a relationship by contract....Try to
avoid any situation in which you or anyone else is obligated....You
wouldn’t get good value when the individual no longer wants to be
involved....

 —Harry Browne

 Powerful relationships arise when two centered individuals commit
themselves to unconditionally love one another and to support each
other’s growth toward full potential....

 —Thomas Cru m

 If a relationship is ever going to work....we must surrender to each
other. If you look up surrender in Webster’s you will find that the
first definition says, “To give up possession of or power over.”
Thus, surrender in a relationship would mean to give up possession of
the power over each other....	— Stewart Emery

 People think that their possessions, their family, their marriage and
natural life are terribly important. They are not! We cannot serve two
masters. We can only serve one force, the one life. God must come first.
We can still serve the secondary side of our nature, but primarily it
must be the expression of a spiritual nature....	— Ronald Beesley

 If love is the foundation of a happy marriage, good manners are the
walls and roof....	— Clarita de Forceville

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065    Relationship 

 The greatest of all arts is the art of living together....Every man who
is happily married is a successful man even if he has failed in
everything else....	— William L. Phelps

 Relationships fail because people try to change one another, thereby
altering the chemistry that brought them together in the first place....

 —Anonymous

 This is the only soil in which love can possibly grow. “We’re gonna
make it together!”...	— John Powell

 The most empowering relationships are those in which each partner lifts
the other to a higher possession of their own being.... — Teilhard de
Chardin

 When two loving minds are united in a single purpose there is a mighty
mental force generated which will unfailingly accomplish the purpose....

 —Leon DeSeblo

 The self-centered person tests all things by the question, “Am I
getting in marriage the happiness which I deserve?” And yet it is
unfair without an accompanying one: “Am I giving in marriage the best
that is possible for me to give?” Two persons thinking of each
other’s happiness will find themselves sharing a rich store of durable
satisfactions....

 —Leland F. Wood

 Many people are greatly enslaved by what we term ties of relationship.
It is well, however, for us to remember that our true relatives are not
necessarily those who are connected with us by ties of blood. Our truest
relatives are those who are nearest akin to us in mind, in soul, in
spirit....	— Ralph W. Trine

 396 *	Relationship

 No other person can bring us happiness if she or he does not possess it
herself or himself. The romantic urge to seek in a second individual
that which neither of the two has, can never find successful
fulfillment....

 —Paul Brunton

 Relationships are like a dance, with visible energy racing back and
forth between the partners....

 —Colette Dowling

 Only independent people can choose to remain in a relationship.
Dependent people remain out of necessity. The most mature level of love
exists only in the face of free choice. Therefore, loving can be
experienced and enjoyed only to the extent that the participants are
able to maintain themselves independently....	— Aaron Stein

 You must first have a good relationship with yourself before you can
have a good relationship with others. You have to feel worthwhile and
acceptable in your own eyes. The more independent you are, the better
you’ll be able to connect and relate with others....

 —Gary Emery

 Relationships are only as alive as the people engaging in them....

 —Donald B. Ardell

 You do not possess any other human being, no matter how close that
other may be. No husband owns his wife; no wife owns her husband; no
parents own their children. When you think you possess people there is a
tendency to run their lives for them....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 If you want your relationship to last, never, never, never, ever
threaten the relationship itself....

 —Anthony Robbins

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Relationship

 The greater the fundamental differences between two persons are the
more difficult it is to establish a fully personal relationship between
them, but also the more worthwhile the relationship will be if it can be
established and maintained....

 —John Macmurray

 I do my thing, and you do your thing. I am not in this world to live up
to your expectations, and you are not in this world to live up to mine.
You are you and I am I. If by chance we find each other, it’s
beautiful. If not, it can’t be helped....	— Fritz Peris

 Relationships are part of a vast plan for our enlightenment....

 —Marianne Williamson

 In healthy relationships, people view one another as unique,
one-of-a-kind individuals; there is no attempt to control, to be a
caretaker, to create a dependency....	— Shantidasa

 As travelers meet by chance on the way, so does man meet a wife,
children, relatives, and friends; let him therefore be in the world and
yet separate from it....	— Srimad Bhagavatam

 &

  Religion 

 T

 rue religion must awaken in us asense of joy....	— Paramananda

 The poverty of all religions has been their inability to make God real
to their devotees....	— Julian P. Johnson

 There is no such thing as God of one religion and God of another. We
have made distinctions through our ignorance....	— Papa Ramdas

 397 *	Religion

 Every true faith began with something very good, but as they get old
they become encrusted with dogma....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 Religions and dogmas keep one looking for God....God is not external to
us; no looking or searching is necessary—one need only abide within
the consciousness of their realization of God’s presence....	— A
Spiritual Warrior

 Do  you think that you can find God by worshipping another? You do such
silly, stupid things—offering flowers and lighting candles! Do you
think that you can find God by giving bribes?...

 —Yoga Swami

 All our religious systems are only the works of intellectual
children....

 —Jakob Bohme

 What cannot be followed out in day-to-day practice cannot be called
religion....	— Mohandas Gandhi

 Where all religions meet is the realization in no mystical sense, but
in the most worldly and everyday sense, that GOD IS EVERYTHING, AND
EVERYTHING IS GOD....

 —Ramana Maharshi

 The religious man always thinks that his zeal for making converts is a
virtue. It is not a virtue at all, but a vice, because this zeal is due
to his egoism....

 —Lakshmana Sarma

 All the religion we have is the ethics of one or another holy
person....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 Religion should unite men everywhere; instead it sunders and separates
them. Religion has proved a razor among men, when it should have healed
all their wounds....	 -—Abdul	Baha

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Religion

 Pure religion....is this, to help the fatherless and widows in their
affliction, and to keep unspotted from the world....	— Paul of Tarsus

 Religion is a bridge to the spiritual—but the spiritual lies beyond
religion. Unfortunately, in seeking the spiritual we may become attached
to the bridge rather than crossing over it....

 —Prabhushri

 For true worship, only God and the human soul are necessary. It does
not depend upon times, or seasons, or occasions. Anywhere and at any
time God and man in the bush may meet....

 —Ralph W. Trine

 Too much religion kills God, the God in Man; enslaves him to
superstition, instead of bringing him Freedom from all fear....	—
Bhagavan Das

 No religion can be built on force....

 —George Sand

 Religion does not blithely promise some sort of no-trouble, no-problem,
no-poverty world; but rather a spirit, a power, an enthusiasm that
endows everyone with the ability to overcome any and all of it....	
—Norman V. Peale

 Religion is doing; a man does not merely think his religion or feel it,
he “lives” his religion as much as he is able, otherwise it is not
religion but fantasy or philosophy.... — George I. Gurdjieff

 Any system of religion that has anything in it that shocks the mind of
a child cannot be a true system....

 —Thomas Paine

 Forms are but symbols; we should never rest in them, but make them the
stepping stones to the good to which they point.... — Nathaniel Emmons

 398 * 	 Religion

 The followers of different religions quarrel about truth because they
have never experienced it. Most of them don’t even try to experience
it; they are much happier quarrelling, fighting and killing each
other....  —Lakshmana

 It is good to be born in a church, but it is bad to die there. It is
good to be born a child, but bad to remain a child. Churches,
ceremonies, symbols are good for children; but when the child is grown
up, he must burst, either the church or himself....The end of all
religion is the realization of God....

 —Vivekananda

 God is not imprisoned or caged within the four walls of temples or
other religious places. He fills the universe and lives in devotees’
hearts....

 —Shirdi Sai Baba

 For a truly religious man nothing is tragic....	— Ludwig Wittgenstein

 A maker of idols is never an idolater....

 —Chinese proverb

 Any religion in which a man is good— and unbigoted—is a good
religion for him and should be held in esteem....

 —Caroline Duerr

 The humble, meek, merciful, just, pious, and devout souls are
everywhere of one religion; and when death has taken off the mask, they
will know one another....	— William Penn

 What we need in religion is not new light, but new sight, not new
paths, but new strength to walk in the old ones....

 —Tryon Edwards

 True religion and virtue give a cheerful and happy turn to the mind....

 —Joseph Addison

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Religion	*	399

 	

 Religions become corrupted when leaders are assigned to explain God’s
will to people instead of showing them how to find this direction within
themselves....	— James Redfield

 Doing good to others is the highest religion....	— Sivananda

 A  religion that is without joy is really no religion at all....	—
Anonymous

 The true worship of God is not a prostration of man in blind delirium;
on the contrary....it is profound peace, the tranquility which arises
from perfect order....	— Eliphas Levi

 Religion is always man-made. It cannot therefore be the whole truth. It
is a good thing for the ordinary and outside man, but surely it will
never bring him to the Gates of Gold.... — Mabel Collins

 If a religion does not teach love, respect, and regard for others, it
cannot be the religion of humanity....

 —Muktananda

 Your religion is where your love is....

 —Henry D. Thoreau

 The spiritual is not religious. A religion is dogma, a set of beliefs
about the spiritual and a set of practices which rise out of those
beliefs....

 —Rachel N. Remen

 Religion is a mental faculty which, independent of, nay, in spite of
sense and reason, enables man to apprehend the Infinite under different
names and under different disguises....

 —Max Muller

 The consciousness of God in the soul of man is the essence, indeed the
sum and substance of all religions....

 —Ralph W. Trine

 Religion

 Religion, wherever it exists, spreads over the whole of life. One
cannot take it up as one takes up golf—by giving it a couple of
afternoons a week. That kind of amateur religion is not religion.
Religion is either the whole of one’s life, or else it is not
religion, no matter how much fuss is made over it....

 —Gregory Vlastos

 The religions we call false were once true....	— Ralph W. Emerson

 A  sage once said: “It is good to be born into a church, but it is
bad to die in a church,” which meant that while we are born into a
religion, we have no choice about it. As we grow up and expand in wisdom
we should be tolerant and our love and sympathy and understanding should
go beyond the borders of our own religion....

 —Chidananda

 Religion is not an end in itself. One’s union with God is the
ultimate goal....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 Religion, in one way or another, has always been with us. Religion will
continue to always be with us. What needs to be discarded and thrown
away is the ecclesiastical rubbish which binds us to religion instead of
God....

 —Shantidasa

 There is only one religion, though there are a hundred versions of
it....

 —George B. Shaw

 No religion has a monopoly on spirituality....	— Anonymous

 Religion is nothing else but love of God and man....	— William Penn

 In matter of religion, it is very easy to deceive a man, and very hard
to undeceive him....	— Pierre Bayle

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Religion 	♦?	 400	*	Religion

 	^p>	

 I maintain that Faith is a pathless land, and you can approach it by
any path whatsoever, by any religion, by any sect....	— J.
Krishnamurti

 Never hurt the feelings of others. Speak the truth. Do not kill any
sentient beings. Cultivate such divine virtues as humility, courage,
forgiveness, tolerance and compassion. Love all, be kind to all. Be
good, do good. Be charitable. Purify the heart. Serve humanity. Share
what you have with others....Love thy neighbor as thyself....These,
indeed, constitute the essentials of all religions....

 —Sivananda

 Men never do evil so completely and cheerfully as when they do it with
religious conviction....

 —Blaise Pascal

 Difference of religion breeds more quarrels than differences of
politics....

 —Wendell Phillips

 Many religions claim that theirs is the only path to the Truth....But
God never made an agreement with any of these religions. All religions
are of fairly recent origin, but God has existed since the beginning of
time. He could not have signed a contract with any religious founder
saying, “You are my exclusive salesman.”...  —Muktananda

 Religion without mystery ceases to be religion....	— William T.
Manning

 Religion is regarded by the common people as true, by the wise as
false, and by the rulers as useful.... — Seneca

 It is more important to create a safer, kinder world than to recruit
more people to the religion that happens to satisfy us....	— Dalai
Lama

 The religion of love is apart from all religions....	— Rumi

 The religion of each is the attainment of his soul’s desire. When he
is on the path of that attainment he is religious. When he is off the
path he is impious....

 —Hazrat Inayat Khan

 Religion is not so much man’s attempt to know God as his attempt to
know himself....	— Stuart Holroyd

 The great turmoil in the religions is caused by the spirit demanding
superiority. Faith is not dying in the West. It is merely moving
inside....

 —Anthony Padovano

 God has no religion....

 —Mohandas Gandhi

 Unselfishness is the only real religion....

 —Israel Zangwill

 There is a diversity of religious doctrines, but there is only one
Religion....

 —Leo Tolstoy

 What counts is not creed but conduct....

 —Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan

 When a man is on a low cultural level, he can satisfy his spiritual
needs with outward religious observances; but as he becomes more highly
developed, he wants to grasp the spirit of religion....

 —Nahman Krochmal

 My father considered a walk among the mountains as the equivalent of
churchgoing....	— Aldous Huxley

 Religion, any religion, is the inner experience of the
individual....There is no such distinction as true and false religion,
for every man’s religion is for him true and genuine....

 —Julian P. Johnson

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Religion	*	4

 	 n

 The first and last lesson of religion is, “The things that are seen
are temporal; the things that are not seen are eternal.”...	— Ralph
W. Emerson

 What the world craves today is a more spiritual and less formal
religion....

 —John D. Rockefeller, Jr.

 True religion needs neither arms nor fingers for its use; it is all
spirit and heart....	— Moses Mendelssohn

 So long as you have a creed, you have no God....	— Vivekananda

 All the disharmony of the world caused by religious differences is the
result of man's failure to understand that religion is one, truth is
one, God is one: how can there be two religions....

 —Anonymous

 Science without religion is lame, religion without science is blind....

 -—Albert Einstein

 Different creeds are but different paths to reach the Almighty....

 —Ramakrishna

 Like the bee gathering honey from different flowers, the wise man
accepts the essence of different Scriptures and sees only the good in
all religions....

 —Srimad Bhagavatam

 We have just enough religion to make us hate, but not enough to make us
love one another....	— Jonathan Swift

 The only religion is conscience in action....	— Henry O. Lloyd

 All belief that does not render us more happy, more free, more loving,
more active, more calm, is, I fear, an erroneous and superstitious
belief....

 —John K. Lavater

 I  ♦?	 Religion

 Religion is not what is grasped by the brain, but a heart grasp....

 —Mohandas Gandhi

 Religion is to be used as a stepping stone to God but it must never be
used as a tower to hold one aloft from others. We are all cells in the
body of humanity. When anyone attempts to isolate another, they only
isolate themselves more....	— Peace Pilgrim

 The object of religion is that the soul should serve God, not that God
should serve the soul....	— Robert Benson

 Every religion is good that teaches man to be good....	— Thomas Paine

 Religious teaching in the past has dealt mainly with preparing man for
the next world. This is of course of the utmost importance, but we
should not allow it to blind us to the fact that there is a Power that
can make this life perfect also....	— Henry T. Hamblin

 Religion is a man’s total reaction upon life....	— William James

 My religion is very simple. My religion is kindness....	— Dalai Lama

 Religion is not knowledge but a direction of the heart....

 —Rainer M. Rilke

 The highest aim of religion....is not to condemn and to destroy, but to
fulfill....

 —Raymond C. Knox

 Religion holds a man back from the path, prevents his stepping forward,
for various very plain reasons. First, it makes the vital mistake of
distinguishing between good and evil....

 —Mabel Collins

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Religion	*	 4

 Religion is a personal relationship with God....	— William Temple

 Truth, in matters of religion, is simply opinion that has survived....

 —Oscar Wilde

 Common men talk bagfuls of religion but act not a grain of it, while
the wise man speaks little, but his whole life is a religion acted
out....	— Ramakrishna

 A man’s religion is the truth he lives habitually, subconsciously and
consciously....	— Benjamin Leeming

 What is religion? That which is never spoken....	— Henry D. Thoreau

 Religion in its true sense is the most joyous thing the human soul can
know, and when the real religion is realized, we will find it to be an
agent of peace, of joy, and of happiness, and never an agent of gloomy,
long-faced sadness....

 —Ralph W. Trine

 It is certainly no part of religion to compel religion....	—
Tertullian

 Religion presents few difficulties to the humble; many to the proud;
insuperable ones to the vain....

 —Augustus & Julius Hare

 Religion is something which every individual must work out for himself;
and we cannot call ourselves religious until through our life we prove
the reality of God and the reality of our own soul....	— Paramananda

 The time is now come when we must choose between creeds and the
Brotherhood of Man. Creeds are but the conjuring of man....	— Baird
Spalding

 God builds His temple in the heart on the ruins of churches and
religions....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 2  ♦?	 Saints

 ?  	

 Temples are not to be built for Him

 with stones piled on high; God is to be

 concentrated in the breast of each....

 —Seneca

 Religions were never designed to unite man. They were supposed to unite
man and God. They failed in both because they never realized that in the
unity of human being, God is born....

 —Babu Rao Patel

 One can become so attached to the outward symbols and structure of
religion that one forgets its original intent—to bring one closer to
God....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 &

  Saints 

 S

 aints have a habit of saying thatthey feel themselves to be no bet-

 ter than the vilest sinners, and they areright. Scoundrels and saints
standequal in the opposite pans of one andthe same balance.... —
Eliphas Levi

 When a saint does something holythere’s nothing surprising about
it....

 —Yuliya Voznesenskaya

 Saints are the great teachers of theloving-kindness and fascination
withGod....	— Evelyn Underhill

 A  person remains ordinary as long ashe is led by the mind: but freed
fromthe mind, he becomes a great saint....

 —Nityananda

 A  man does not have to be an angel tobe a saint....	— Albert
Schweitzer

 The heroes, the saints and sages—theyare those who face the world
alone....

 —Norman Douglas

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Saints	*	4

 The beginning of saintliness is killing of egoism. The end of
saintliness is Eternal Life. The key to saintliness is chastity. The
light of saintliness is universal love....	— Sivananda

 Saints are not saints by chance, nor by choice, but by
necessity—because there is a hunger in their souls which cannot be
satisfied by anything less than the divine....	— Nancy Pope Mayyorya

 There are no external signs to mark out a God-realized saint. He does
not grow a horn. But he is always full of bliss. He is happy under all
conditions....

 —Papa Ramdas

 A man may have never entered a church or a mosque, nor performed any
ceremony; but if he realizes God within himself, and is thereby lifted
above the vanities of the world, that man is a holy man, a saint, call
him what you will....	— Vivekananda

 Saints are simply men and women who have fulfilled their natural
obligation, which is to approach God....

 —Evelyn Waugh

 He whom God has touched will always be a being apart: he is, whatever
he may do, a stranger among men; he is marked by a sign.... — Ernest
Renan

 Whoever fights ceaselessly against his own selfishness and strives to
supplant it with all-embracing love is a saint, whether he live in a
cottage or in the midst of riches and influence; or whether he preaches
or remains obscure....	 —James	Allen

 The true saint goes in and out amongst the people and eats and sleeps
with them and buys and sells in the market and marries and takes part in
social intercourse, and never forgets God for a single moment....	—
Abu Sa ’id Ibn

 3 *	Saints

 The wonderful thing about saints is that they were human. They lost
their tempers, got hungry, scolded God, were egotistical or testy or
impatient in their turns, made mistakes and regretted them. Still they
went on doggedly blundering toward heaven....

 —Phyllis McGinley

 Every Saint has the same message to give and the same teachings to
impart. No Saint, no perfect Master, comes into this world to create a
religion, to divide people, to set one nation against another or one
religion against another. They come only to show us the Way which leads
back to our original Home....	— Charan Singh

 Even saints who engage in no outward work bestow, through their
thoughts and holy vibrations, more precious benefits on the world than
can be given by the most strenuous humanitarian activities of
unenlightened men....

 —Paramahansa Yogananda

 A saint is like a tree. He does not call anyone, neither does he send
anyone away. He gives shelter to whoever cares to come....	
—Anandamayee	Ma

 Saints seek neither recognition nor fame. Like the sun, their very
being is their greatness....

 -—The Mountain Path

 Saints are like big steamships which not only cross the ocean
themselves but carry many passengers to the other shore....	—
Ramakrishna

 A  saint is a golden chain, in which each saint is a separate link,
united to the next by faith, works, and love....

 — Symeon, the New Theologian

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Saints	*	404 	♦?	 Saints

  	

 A child has no real knowledge of the attainments of an adult. An
ordinary adult cannot understand the attainments of a learned man. In
the same way, an educated man cannot yet understand the experiences of
enlightened saints....	— El-Ghazali

 Pioneers have to tread a lonely road. It is so in order that they may
stand out as great, solitary figures, which act as landmarks to guide
those who come after them. What is exceptional today, becomes the
commonplace of tomorrow....	— Henry T. Hamblin

 Saintship is the exclusive possession of those who have either worn out
or never had the capacity to sin....

 —Elbert Hubbard

 All good men are saints....

 —Francois Fenelon

 The creed of the saint is to make the most of life, and to make the
best of it....	— Edwin H. Chapin

 The saint is he who bears enmity to no living creature. There is but
one Spirit: he has no enemy....	— Dadu

 If we ask of the saints how they achieved spiritual effectiveness, they
are only able to reply that, insofar as they did it themselves, they did
it by love and prayer.... — Evelyn Underhill

 Only the saints are truly happy. The pity of our lives is that we are
not all saints....	— Leon Bloy

 The saints of God are sealed inwardly with faith, but outwardly with
good works....	— John Boys

 The saintlier the man, the deeper went his desire to remain
inconspicuous and anonymous....	— Sheldon Cheney

 Why were saints, saints? Because they were cheerful when it was
difficult to be cheerful, patient when it was difficult to be patient,
and because they pushed on when they wanted to stand still, and kept
silent when they wanted to talk; and were agreeable when they wanted to
be disagreeable. That was all. It was quite simple and always will
be....	— Anonymous

 Patience in calamity, mercy in greatness, fortitude in adversity; these
are the self-attained perfections of great saints....	-— Hitopodesa

 A saint is a very simple man: when he walks, he walks; when he talks,
he talks and that’s all. He doesn’t think while listening, daydream
while walking, see while touching. That is very hard. That is why he is
a saint....	— Sujata

 Many of the insights of the saint stem from his experience as a
sinner....

 —Eric Hoffer

 The saint hath no fear, because fear is the expectation either of some
future calamity or the eventual loss of some object of desire, whereas
the saint is the son of his time: he has no future that he should fear
anything.... — Junayd

 One cannot expect to become a saint without paying the price, and the
price is much renunciation, much temptation, much struggle and
persecution, and all sorts of sacrifice....

 —Mother Teresa

 The holiest men are not always those who commit the fewest faults, but
those who have the most courage, most love, and the most free spirit;
those who make the heartiest effort for conquering self....	— Jean N.
Grou

 The whole life of a saint should be one great continual prayer.... —
Origen

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Saints	*	405	*	Search/Look	Within

 	<spe	

 The work of great Masters or Saints is to take people up and out of
this world....The Saints come to take people to their eternal home....

 —Julian P. Johnson

 Every prophet and every saint hath a way, but it leads to God: all the
ways are really one....	— Rumi

 The first characteristic of a Saint is that he is calm and tranquil,
and bears like a diamond the buffets of misfortune....

 —Tuharam

 Sainthood is not just the negation of human life. Saints have been
kings, artisans, preachers, doctors, priests, painters, poets....	—
Jacques Maritain

 The saints of God are known by three signs: their thought is of God,
their dwelling is with God, and their business is in God....	— Attar

 The saints are the sinners who keep on trying....	 —Robert L.
Stevenson

 The glory alike of the saint, the sage, and the savior is this—that
he has realized the most profound lowliness, the most sublime
unselfishness....He gives, yet never thinks of receiving; he works
without regretting the past or anticipating the future, and never looks
for a reward....	— James Allen

 Great sages and saints have set certain rules for us to follow. If we
followed those rules we shall know what is right and what is wrong so
that we may avoid certain things....	— Papa Ramdas

 The greatest saints avoided the company of men as much as possible, and
chose to live with God in secret....

 —Thoyyias a Kempis

 m

  Search/ Look Within 

 N

 othing gives rest but the sinceresearch for truth....

 —Blaise Pascal

 When you go in search of honey you must expect to be stung by bees....

 —Kenneth Kauda

 There is no search or goal possible, we are spiritually free and united
in oneness with the absolute....The search is the ego’s looking for
itself, an illusory game of hide and seek....

 —A Spiritual Warrior

 Life refuses to yield up or to display its sublimest secret to the
slothful. If you wish to discover the depth of its meaning, why then,
you must break up the fallow ground and prepare to search for it, and
the place to seek it is within....	— Pierre Schmidt

 It is foolish to seek for God outside of oneself. This will result
either in idolatry or skepticism....	— Toyoh iko Kagawa

 Be a lamp unto your own feet; do not seek outside yourself....

 —Gautama Buddha

 The search for God is always futile because God can never be found,
ever, simply because God has never been lost....	— Anonymous

 When ye leave off seeking you will experience that there was never
anything to seek for. You were only seeking to lose something, when you
went forth so vigorously in search....

 —Sunyata

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Search/Look Within

 406

 -  *ap? -

 Search/Look Within

 People are looking for something and cannot seem to find it. They say
they want more but cannot describe what that more is. This essentially
is a spiritual quest....	— fames W. Jones

 You search for God, and seek to find Him here. Or you seek to find Him
there. Why need you look in the corners of the room when He entirely
fills the room....	— Ormond McGill

 If you can find the God inside yourself, you can find the God inside
everybody....	— Stephen Levine

 There is only one temple, and that is the temple of yourself. And to
find God you have to know this temple of yourself. There is no other
temple. No one can save you....	— YogaSwami

 If we pursue spiritual illumination, it will fade away. If we separate
ourselves from God as the doer, we become the searcher, always haunted
and always trying to find the ultimate Reality. We neither seek it nor
look for it, for all we want is here, now....	— Paul Twitchell

 We have all to return to the source. Every human being is seeking its
source and must one day come to it. We must come from the Within; we
have gone outward; now we must return inward....	— Ramana Maharshi

 Science cannot solve the ultimate mystery of Nature. And it is because
in the last analysis we ourselves are part of the mystery we are trying
to solve....

 —Max Planck

 The great blessings of mankind are within us, and within our reach; but
we shut our eyes and, like people in the dark, fall short of the very
thing we search for without finding it....

 —Seneca

 Remember, you cannot abandon what you do not know. To go beyond
yourself you must know yourself....

 —Nisargadatta

 A humble knowledge of thyself is a surer way to God than a deep search
after learning....	— Thomas a Kempis

 We must seek God in error and forgetfulness and foolishness....

 —Meister Eckhart

 Looking for God is like seeking a path in a field of snow; if there is
no path and you are looking for one, walk across it and there is your
path....

 —Thomas Merton

 You never know yourself till you know more than your body....

 —Thomas Traherne

 The most excellent and divine counsel, the best and most profitable
advertisement of all others, but the least practiced, is to study and
learn how to know ourselves. This is the foundation of wisdom and the
highway to whatever is good....	— Pierre Charron

 Look within for your answers. Your divine nature—your inner
light—knows all the answers....	— Peace Pilgrim

 Look within. Within you is the hidden God. Within you is the immortal
Soul. Within you is the inexhaustible spiritual treasure. Within you is
the ocean of bliss. Look within for the happiness which you have sought
in vain....

 —Sivananda

 What we are looking for is what is looking....	— Francis of Assisi

 Look within. Within is your fountain of good....	— Marcus Aurelius

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Search/Look Within

 If you want to understand others, look into your own heart....

 —Johann von Schiller

 If a man happens to find himself....he has a mansion which he can
inhabit with dignity all the days of his life....

 —James Michener

 When one is a stranger to oneself then one is estranged from others
too....

 —Anne Morrow Lindbergh

 Men do not know themselves, and therefore they do not understand the
things of their inner world. Each man has the essence of God and all the
wisdom and power of the world in himself....	— Paracelsus

 People do not know and they do not want to know themselves....

 —Matthew Kelty

 What lies behind us and what lies before us are tiny matters compared
to what lies within us....

 —Oliver W. Holmes

 The final mystery is oneself....When one has weighed the sun in the
balance, and measured the steps of the moon and mapped out the seven
heavens star by star, there still remains oneself....	— Oscar Wilde

 Riches and power may vanish because they are outside ourselves. Only
that which is within can we call our own....

 —Hazrat Inayat Khan

 Until we lose ourselves there is no hope of finding ourselves....

 —Henry Miller

 Look within: It can’t be found by seeking, but only seekers will find
it....

 —Bo Lozoff

 407 *	Search/Look	Within

 At the end of all religious paths there is the quest ‘Who am I?’
Until that question is satisfactorily answered no one can claim to know
what the truth is or what God is. The ultimate instruction in all
religions should therefore be ‘Know thyself.’...	— Lakshmana

 The seekers of the light are one....

 —Samuel Longfellow

 You have to leave the city of your comfort and go into the wilderness
of your intuition. What you discover will be wonderful. What you
discover will be yourself....	— Alan Alda

 When a man’s fight begins within himself, he is worth something....

 —Robert Browning

 How can you come to know yourself? Never by thinking; always by
doing....

 —Johann W. Goethe

 He who knows others is wise. He who knows himself is enlightened....

 — Lao-tzu

 Withdraw into yourself and look. And if you do not find yourself
beautiful as yet, do as the creator of a statue that is to be made
beautiful; he cuts away here, he smoothes there, he makes this line
lighter, this other purer, until he has shown a beautiful face upon the
statue....	— Plotinus

 Look at your own life. Has it become overly complex? Have you found
yourself burdened by too many possessions or responsibilities? Take a
deep breath and ask yourself: “What steps can I take to reduce the
clutter so that I may live simply and joyously?”...

 —Douglas Bloch

 The important thing is not to stop questioning....	 —Albert	Einstein

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Search/Look Within	*	408 	♦?	
Search/Look	Within

 	 ‘ISP?			

 The greatest virtue of man lies in his ability to correct his mistakes
and continually to make a new man of himself....	— Wang Yang Ming

 Cherish that which is within you, and shut off that which is without;
for much knowledge (of outward things) is a curse....	— Chuang Tse

 All life is from within out. This is something that cannot be
reiterated too often. The springs of life are all from within....	
—Ralph	W. Trine

 He that knows himself knows how to strengthen his weakness, and the
wise man conquers everything, even the stars in their courses....

 —Baltazar Gracian

 The most important things ever said to us are said by our inner
selves....

 —Adelaide Bry

 In each of us there is a king. Speak to him and he will come forth....

 —Danish proverb

 You have everything. You are the whole world. Why? Because the kingdom
of God is within you. Then why do you want to run about and beg?...

 —Yoga Swami

 To study ourselves is to forget ourselves....	— Dogen-zenji

 Man should turn his gaze within in order to begin that most marvelous
of all explorations, since happiness comes only from within....

 —Pierre Schmidt

 As  we go deeper within ourself we are less inclined to notice outer
happenings....	— Paramananda

 The most difficult thing in life is to know yourself....	— Thales

 Nothing will make us so charitable and tender to the faults of others,
as by self- examination, thoroughly to know our own....	— Francois
Fenelon

 The sole concern of learning is to seek one’s original heart....	—
Mencius

 Look within. Seek the Self. There will be an end of the world and its
miseries....The enquiry “Who am I?” is the only method of putting an
end to all misery and ushering in supreme Beatitude....	— Ramana
Maharshi

 Learn God, and thou shall know thyself....	— Martin Tupper

 The simplest questions are the most profound. Where were you born?
Where is your home? Where are you going? What are you doing?...

 —Richard Bach

 Most people are standing on a mountain of gold looking at a pile of
silver in the distance....	— Anonymous

 If you know him by whom you were made, you will know yourself....

 — Sextus, the Pythagorean

 The search must begin in our bosom: Who am I?...	— Rufus Jones

 The world is ready to give up its secrets if we only know how to knock,
how to give it the necessary blow....

 —Vivekananda

 No one who has not a complete knowledge of himself will ever have a
true understanding of another....

 —Friedrich Von Novalis

 Deep within himself man seeks a meaning for his life, and tries to
fulfill himself in accordance with that meaning....	— Victor Frankl

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Search/Look Within	*	409	*
Search/Look	Within

 	-sp-	

 Don’t waste time hunting for the pot of gold at the foot of the
rainbow. Better see what a little digging will accomplish right where
you stand. Your pot of gold is probably under your own feet....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 When you meet someone not as good as you are, look within and examine
your own self....	— Confucius

 The precept, “Know yourself,” was not solely intended to obviate
the pride of mankind, but likewise that we might understand our own
worth....

 —Cicero

 The final proof that we have really found God is that all the
discordant elements in our life fall into place and we are at peace....

 —William A. Brown

 What you are trying to find out is what you already are....	—
Nisargadatta

 The path to the source of your and the world’s being is not without.
You have to go within yourself. ‘Seek within and know thyself’;
these secret and sublime hints come to us wafted from the breath of
Rishis (wise men) through the dust of ages....	— Papa Ramdas

 Seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness, and all things
will be added unto you....	— Jesus

 The highest and most profitable learning is the knowledge of
ourselves....	— Thomas a Kempis

 Resolve to be thyself; and know that he who finds himself, loses his
misery....

 —Matthew Arnold

 Look inward, and in a flash you will conquer the Apparent and the
Void....

 — Seng-ts’an

 The height of all philosophy is to know thyself; and the end of this
knowledge is to know God....	— Francis Quarles

 Do not search in distant skies for God. In man’s own heart is He
found....

 —Shinto saying

 Whoever knows the All but fails to know himself lacks everything....

 —Gospel of Thomas

 Man lives with himself....and doesn’t know himself. “Know
thyself” means: devote time each day to studying yourself....ferreting
out your weakness, working at self-improvement, purifying your immortal
soul....

 —Israel S. Liphin

 No man should ever grope outside of his best self to find God. He
should always seek the God who is speaking to him in his best self....

 —Harry E. Fosdick

 God works in us from within outwards....	— Jan Van Ruysbroeck

 Next to the knowledge of God nothing is so precious as the knowledge of
Self....	— Jean N. Grou

 In one’s search for God, one cannot reach God until one has made a
great effort, until one becomes obsessed with the thought of God alone
and until one has given up all attachments and relationships....	—
Saradamma

 All our interior world is reality—and that perhaps more so than our
apparent world.... — Marc Chagall

 People try to find out about things which are outside of them before
they try to find out “Who am I?”...

 —Ramana Maharshi

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Search/Look Within

 Try to enter your inner treasure-house and you will see the
treasure-house of heaven....	— Isaac of Syria

 If a man knows himself, he shall know God....	— Clement	of Alexandria

 To the man who hesitated to embark on the spiritual quest for fear of
effort and renunciation, the Master said: “How much effort and
renunciation does it take to open one’s eyes and see?”...	—
Anthony de Mello

 Men who know themselves are no longer fools, they stand on the
threshold of the Door of Wisdom....

 —Havelock Ellis

 From heaven descended the precept “Know Thyself.”...	— Juvenal

 What is lost shall be found, though not always in the same place....

 —Janis J. Kinens

 Do not seek to follow in the footsteps of men of old; seek what they
sought....

 —Basho

 Every man is engaged in searching for something lost. Life is the
chance afforded him to recover the peace and the joy he has lost....

 —Sathya Sai Baba

 If you search in deep water only, you will find the pearl. If you keep
to the shore, you will find broken shells only....	— Sivananda

 “The pursuit of happiness” is responsible for a good part of the
ills and miseries of the modern world....

 —Malcolm Muggeridge

 Many millions search for God and find Him in their hearts....	— Sikh
proverb

 <4h

 410 *	Search/Look Within

 	

 In the search for truth there are certainquestions that are not
important. Ofwhat material is the universe con-structed? Is the universe
eternal? Arethere limits or not to the universe?What is the ideal form
of organizationfor human society? If a man were topostpone his search
and practice forEnlightenment until such questionswere solved, he would
die before hefound the path....	— Gautama Buddha

 Oh, my God, how does it happen....thatThou art so great and yet nobody
findsThee, that thou callest so loudly andnobody hears Thee, that Thou
art sonear and nobody feels Thee, that Thougivest Thyself to everybody
and nobodyknows Thy name....	— Hans Dench

 If we know that God is forever rightwhere we are, we shall not be
reachingout in every direction for Him....

 —Ernest Holmes

 If you want to be found, stand wherethe seeker seeks....	— Sidney
Lanier

 If you know that fundamentally thereis nothing to seek, you have
settledyour affairs....	 —Rinzai

 The way to God is but one step, the stepout of yourself....

 —Abu Said ofMineh

 There is no creature in existence who isnot looking for God but each
oneunderstands this in his own way....

 —Omraan M. Aivanhov

 Man is the reflection of God; but thereflection cannot exist without
theobject reflected; so man must knowwhat God is, if he would know
himself.This has been the search down the agesand this search must be
made by everyindividual for himself; there is no onewho can answer this
question foranother....	— Paramananda

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Search/Look Within 	♦?	 411 	♦?
 Search/Look	Within

 	  Why are you looking for God up there? He is here, here!...	—
Niffari

 It is everyone’s duty to search and search until he finds within
himself some point of goodness....

 —Rabbi Nachman

 The search for happiness is the search for God, although very few
people understand this great truth....

 —Elinor MacDonald

 For thirty years I went in search of God, and when at the end of that
time I opened my eyes, I discovered that it was he who had been looking
for me....

 —Bayezid Bistami

 I want to know how God created this world. I am not interested in this
or that phenomenon. I want to know His thoughts, the rest are
details....

 —Albert Einstein

 Oh friend, where are you going? Where have you come from, and what are
you supposed to do? You belong to the supreme Truth, but you have
forgotten your origin. Now is the time to get back on the main road...
— Muktananda

 We have what we seek. It is there all the time, and if we give it time
it will make itself known to us....

 —Thomas Merton

 All search is vain, until we begin to perceive that wisdom is within
ourselves....then we may know the sun is rising, that the morning is
breaking for us....	 —Vivekananda

 In truth, we seek God outside of ourselves until we make the great
Discovery—which is that our heart is the sanctuary where the Lord of
the universe dwells in all His glory....

 —Papa Ramdas

 No one can know God who has not first known himself. Go to the depths
of the soul, the secret place....to the roots, to the heights, for all
that God can do is focused there....	— Meister Eckhart

 No man can know himself as he is, and all the fullness of his nature,
without also knowing God....

 —Theodore Munger

 Who am I? Where have I come from? Where am I going?—are not questions
with an answer but questions that open us up to new questions which lead
us deeper into the unspeakable mystery of existence....	— Henri Nouwen

 I know well what I am fleeing from but not what 1 am in search of....

 —Michel Montaigne

 The heavens are still; no sound. Where then shall God be found? Search
not in distant skies; in man’s own heart He lies....	— Shao Yung

 We go here, there, to this place, to that one, always looking for the
happiness that is there inside.... — Satchidananda

 Secreted and hidden in the heart of the world and in the heart of man
is the light which can illuminate all life, the future and the past.
Shall we not search for it?...	— Mabel Collins

 Ask and it shall be given unto you; seek and ye shall find; knock, and
it shall be opened unto you....For every one that asks, receives; and he
that seeks, finds; and to him that knocks it shall be opened....	—
Jesus

 We must not cease from exploration and the end of all our exploring
will be to arrive where we began and to know the place for the first
time....

 — T. S. Eliot

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Search/Look Within 	♦?  4

 Look well into yourself; there is a source of strength which will
always spring up if you will always look there....	— Marcus Aurelius

 Why does a man go out to look for God? It is your own heart beating,
and you do not know, you were mistaking it for something outside.... —
Vivekananda

 We seek satisfaction in the baubles of the world, yet we discover no
satisfaction at all, but only disappointment and despair. Finding no
solace anywhere, we at last turn to Reality where alone true
satisfaction may be found....	— Henry T. Hamblin

 Where do you go in search of God? He is with you....	— Kabir

 To the possession of the Self the way is inward....	— Plotinus

 No matter how much we seek, we never find anything but ourselves....

 —Anatole France

 Lord....I went round the streets and squares of the city of this world
seeking thee; and I found thee not, because in vain I sought without for
him, who was within myself....	 —Augustine

 &

  Self-Esteem 

 H

 e who undervalues himself isjustly undervalued by others....

 —William Hazlitt

 The lower our self-esteem, the more we’re attracted to our opposite,
and the higher our self-esteem, the more we are attracted to another
like ourselves....

 —Marilyn vos Savant

 2 *	Self-Esteem

 If you lose self-esteem, you are losing far more than you realize....

 —Elinor MacDonald

 A  person is in hell who has lost his self-esteem....	— Robert
Schuller

 Confidence holds the world and nourishes all. How can a baby thrive if
it has no confidence in its mother? How can a lover gain pleasure if he
does not trust his beloved?... — Tripura Rahasya

 Self-esteem stems from positive beliefs about yourself; it does not
depend upon the approval of another person....

 —Anonymous

 Keeping the other fellow talking about himself and knowing that you are
controlling the situation can do wonders to bolster your
self-confidence....	— L. F. Mules

 Self-confidence is a good thing to develop, after you are sure you have
something to be confident about....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 Skill and confidence are an unconquered army....	— George Herbert

 In quietness and confidence shall be your strength....	— Old
Testament

 When you love who you are, there is no thing unconquerable, no thing
unreachable....	— Ramtha

 I have an everyday religion that works for me. Love yourself first and
everything else falls into place....

 —Lucille Ball

 It is difficult to make a man miserable while he feels he is worthy of
himself and claims kindred to the great God who made him....	— Abraham
Lincoln

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Self-Esteem 	♦?	 4

 The person who has no respect for himself cannot be relied upon to be
courteous toward others....

 —Charles E. Carman

 Esteem by others or self-esteem, which is better?...The more you depend
on others for esteem, the less you are self-sufficient....	— Lao-tzu

 Genuine self-love is the greatest protection against dependent
relationships....	— Robert Coleman

 He that respects himself is safe from others; he wears a coat of mail
that none can pierce....

 —Henry  IV.  Longfellow

 Unless we are in love with ourselves, we have no love to offer anyone
else....

 —Walter Starche

 If you don’t like yourself, you can’t be happy....	— Dennis
Wholey

 We are worthwhile simply because we are, irrespective of any work we
may produce....	— Margaret Stortz

 Don’t say you like the way you are....You haven’t seen anything
yet....

 —Eric Butterworth

 The divinity that shapes your destinies is not a mighty person molding
you as a potter molds his clay, but a Mighty Divine Power—within and
all around you, and around and in all substance— which is yours to use
as you will. If you do not realize this you cannot have any confidence
in yourselves....

 —Baird Spalding

 That kind of life is most happy which affords us the most opportunities
of gaining our own esteem....

 —Samuel Johnson

 3   ♦? 	 Self-Esteem

 Don’t let the opinions of other people determine the image you have
of yourself. There is no need to feel either appreciated or understood.
Be even- minded. What you think about yourself is everything. What
others think about you has no value at all, unless you choose to give it
value....

 —Shantidasa

 It is a psychological fact that man always conforms to the image he
holds of himself. Change his image and you change his actions, his
reactions, his environment, his world....

 —Jack Holland

 The biggest secret of self-esteem is this: Begin to appreciate other
people more, show respect for any human being merely because he is a
child of God and therefore a “thing of value.”...

 —Maxwell Maltz

 Lack of confidence is not the result of difficulty; the difficulty
comes from lack of confidence....	— Seneca

 Self-esteem is the result of the relationship that you have with
yourself....the thoughts and attitudes you have of yourself....	— Phil
Laut

 Do not imagine that any one can have true faith in God who has not
faith in himself....	— Paramananda

 Without self-respect and self-esteem, surrender is weakness.... —
Sevakram

 Those with low self-esteem do not know what they want out of life. They
have lived protected, restricted, perhaps indulged or abused
lives....The person with a healthy self-view knows how to fend for
himself....

 —Marsha Sinetar

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Self-Esteem

 As soon as you trust yourself you willlearn to live....	— Friedrich
von Schiller

 You must see God inside of you beforeyou recognize it in another
humanbeing.... — Ma Jaya Sati Bhagavati

 Self-respect is the noblest garmentwith which a man may clothe
himself,the most satisfying elevating feelingswith which the mind can be
inspired....

 —Samuel Smiles

 Above all things, revere yourself....

 —Pythagoras

 Believe in yourself; feel that you areable to dominate your
surroundings.Resolve that you will be master and notthe slave of
circumstances....

 —Orison S. Marden

 If I am not for myself, who will be forme?...	— Hillel

 Self-esteem cannot be sought as an endin itself but must come as a
by-productof meeting standards of excellence-taking pride in
work....learning aboutlife and imparting that wisdom....

 —Aaron Wildavsky

 Your self-confidence will improvewhen you realize who you are. You
areGod’s child, and capable of acting thatway....	— Peace Pilgrim

 The biggest obstacle to happiness islack of self-esteem. People who
lack aninternal sense of self-value, self-respectand self-worth become
very ego-centric....	— Robert Schuller

 The triumph of personal achievementis found in feeling good about
your-self....	—Wess  Roberts

 A  man cannot be comfortable without

 his own approval....	— Mark Twain

  414 *	Self-Esteem 

 	

 There is overwhelming evidence thatthe higher the level of self-esteem,
themore likely one will treat others withrespect, kindness, and
generosity....

 —Nathaniel Branden

 How can we send the highest love toothers if we do not have it
forourselves?...	— Prentice Mulford

 Everyone stamps his own value onhimself. The price we charge
forourselves is given us. Man is madegreat or little by his own will....

 —Johann von Schiller

 Whenever an inferiority complex exists,there is a good reason for it.
There isalways something inferior there....

 —Carl Jung

 No man who is occupied in doing adifficult thing, and doing it very
well,ever loses his self-respect....

 —George B. Shaw

 Nobody holds a good opinion of a manwho has a low opinion of
himself....

 —Anthony Trollope

 For a man to achieve all that isdemanded of him he must regardhimself
as greater than he is....

 —Johann W. Goethe

 A  man can stand a lot as long as he canstand himself....	— Axel
Munthe

 Putting someone else high upon apedestal is just another way of
puttingyourself down....	— Anonymous

 The man who makes everything that

 leads to happiness depend upon

 himself, and not upon other men, has

 adopted the very best plan for living

 happily....	— Plato

 <4t?

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Selfishness

 &

  Selfishness 

 I

 t is the ignorant man who seeks hisown ends at the expense of the

 greater whole. It is the ignorant man,therefore, who is the selfish
man. Thetruly wise man is never selfish....

 —Ralph W. Trine

 Selfish people are, by definition, those whose activities are devoted
to bringing themselves happiness. Yet....these selfish people are far
less likely to be happy than those whose efforts are devoted to making
others happy....

 — Bernard. Rimland

 As a man goes down in self, he goes up in God....	— George B. Cheever

 Selfish persons are incapable of loving others, but they are not
capable of loving themselves either.... — Erich Fromm

 The hardest victory is the victory over self....	— Aristotle

 If you always seek your own advantage, what is the use of remaining
among men? A selfish man frustrates every chance to make all beings
rejoice....

 —Tibetan saying

 Self-love and love of the world would constitute hell... — Emanuel
Swedenborg

 Look in the mirror every day, for if scars of selfishness or pride are
in the heart, they will grow into lines on the face. Watch closely....

 —Etu Inagaki Sugimoto

 Every act of selfishness or thought of selfishness makes us attached to
something, and immediately we are made slaves....	— Vivekananda

 415  ♦?	 Selfishness

 If you live only for yourself you are always in immediate danger of
being bored to death with the repetition of your own views and
interests....

 —Walter B. Wolfe

 A  selfish man is always miserable. He has neither peace nor
happiness....

 —Sivananda

 Any idea that is built on selfishness will disturb your mind.... —
Satchidananda

 I perceived the entirely self-centered life as not worth living. If
what you are doing will not benefit others besides yourself, it is not
worth doing....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 Selfishness is the great enemy of peace. Selfishness walks by itself
and no one walks with it....	— Blackfeather

 The strongest barrier to faith is selfishness....	— Joseph Baron

 No man is more cheated than the selfish man....	— Henry W. Beecher

 It is almost impossible to reason with someone who is basically
selfish....

 —Akbarali H. Jetha

 Selfishness keeps man blind through life....Life is a misery for the
man who is absorbed in himself....

 —Hazrat Inayat Khan

 Self-love cannot endure to see itself; it would die of shame and
vexation! If by chance it gets a glimpse, it at once places itself in
some artificial light, as to soften the full hideousness and find some
comfort....	— Francois Fenelon

 The reason why lovers and their mistresses never tire of being together
is that they are always talking of themselves....

 —Francois La Rochefoucauld

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Selfishness

 When a man’s soul is clouded withselfishness in any or every form,
heloses the power of spiritual discrim-ination, and confuses the
temporalwith the eternal, the perishable withthe permanent, mortality
with im-mortality, and error with Truth....

 —James Allen

 The force of selfishness is as inevitableand as calculable as the force
ofgravitation....	— George S. Hillard

 The trouble is that we are self-centered,and no effort of the self can
remove theself from the center of its ownendeavor....	— William Temple

 The disease we all have and that wehave to fight against all our lives
is, ofcourse, the disease of self....

 —Sherwood Anderson

 No one, I am convinced, can be happywho lives only for himself....

 —James M. Brown

 The more self is indulged the more itdemands and, therefore, of all the
menthe selfish are the most discontented....

 —Benjamin Franklin

 We are more troublesome to ourselvesthan anyone else is to us....

 —Francis de Sales

 Self-interest is but the survival of theanimal in us. Humanity only
begins forman with self-surrender....

 —Henri F. Amiel

 We feel and weigh soon enough whatwe suffer from others; but how
muchothers suffer from us, of this we take noheed....	— Thomas a
Kempis

 The root of all discontent is self-love....

 —James F. Clarke

 416  ♦?	 Selfishness

  ,p. 	 

 The great enemy of the soul is not trialbut sadness, which is the
bleedingwound of self-love....

 —William Ullathome

 Selfishness is the only real atheism....

 —Israel Zangwill

 The man who works for self, or thinksthat his business is being run for
hispersonal benefit, or who expects otherpeople to help him, can never
become asuccess. His very attitude toward lifekeeps away all
possibilities of such athing; it dams up the channel throughwhich good
and abundance can flow....

 —Henry T. Hamblin

 Selfishness is a negative virtue; it existsto glorify selflessness....
— Sivananda

 Virtue and wisdom are sublime things;but if they create pride and a
con-sciousness of separateness from the restof humanity in the mind of
man, thenthey are only the snakes of self(ishness)reappearing in a finer
form....A manwho becomes selfish isolates himself,grows less interesting
and less agree-able to others....	— Mabel Collins

 Poverty wants some things, luxurymany, avarice all things....

 —Abraham Cowley

 The best way of saving oneself a lot oftrouble in life is to pay very
little heedto one’s interests...	— Joseph Joubert

 The smaller the man and the woman,the more dwarfed and dwindling
theirnatures, the more they pride them-selves upon their
“exclusiveness.”Anyone can be exclusive. It comes easy.It takes and
it signifies a large nature tobe universal, to be inclusive....

 —Ralph W. Trine

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Selfishness

 417

 -   C *?V -

 Selfishness

 Inferiors revolt in order that they may be equal, and equals that they
may be superior. Such is the state of mind which creates revolutions....

 —Aristotle

 Selfishness is not living as one wishes to live, it is asking others to
live as one wishes to live....	— Oscar Wilde

 The covetous man cannot so properly be said to possess wealth, as that
may be said to possess him....

 —Francis Bacon

 Selfish striving is at the root of all the world’s suffering....	
—James	Allen

 Master pride and dame vanity have mingled and given birth to an ogre
named “selfishness.”... — Shantidasa

 Greed is the chief officer of passion. Wherever there is greed, there
is passion; and where there is passion, there is greed almost
invariably. The understanding gets clouded, the intellect gets
perverted, and the memory gets confused by passion and greed....	—
Sivananda

 Avarice increases with the increasing pile of gold....	— Juvenal

 The covetous man lives as if the world were made altogether for him,
and not he for the world; to take in everything and part with
nothing....

 —Robert Smith

 The lust of avarice has so fully seized upon mankind that their wealth
seems rather to possess them, than they possess their wealth....	—
Pliny

 To greed, all nature is insufficient. Avarice is so insatiable that it
is not in the power of abundance to contest it....

 —Seneca

 Avarice in old age is foolish; for what can be more absurd than to
increase our provisions for the road the nearer we approach our
journey’s end?...

 —Cicero

 The covetous man heaps up riches, not to enjoy but to have them; he
starves himself in the midst of plenty....

 —John Tillotson

 The very heart and root of sin is an independent spirit. We erect the
idol self and not only wish others to worship, but worship it
ourselves....

 —Richard Cecil

 Covetousness, by greediness of getting more, deprives itself of the
true end of getting; it loses the enjoyment of what it had got....	—
Thomas Sprat

 The selfish man suffers more from his selfishness than he from whom
that selfishness withholds some important benefit....	— Ralph W.
Emerson

 The avaricious man is like a barren sandy ground of the desert which
sucks in all the rain and dew with greediness, but yields no fruitful
herbs or plants for the benefit of others....	— Zeno

 The weaknesses of our age is our apparent inability to distinguish our
needs from our greeds....

 —Don Robinson

 Little souls wish you to be unhappy. It aggravates them to have you
joyous, efficient and free....It gives their egos wings if yours are
clipped. You can ruin your life in an hour by listening to their puerile
opinions....	— David Seabury

 The very heart and root of sin is an independent spirit. We erect the
idol self and not only wish others to worship, but worship it
ourselves....

 —Richard Cecil

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Selfishness

 God does not chastise us really, forwe chastise ourselves. We
cutourselves off from the Universal Lifeand its abundance, by acting in
apersonal and selfish, acquisitive way,instead of a universal way....

 —Henry T. Hamblin

 Personality, separateness, selfishnessare one and the same, and are
theantithesis of wisdom and divinity. Bythe unqualified surrender of
per-sonality, separateness and selfishnesscease, and man enters into
thepossession of his divine heritage....

 —James Allen

 Half the harm that is done in the worldis due to people who want to
feelimportant....	— T. S. Eliot

 As long as man persists in wanting tobe the hub and center of his
ownexistence he will, in fact, continue torevolve round something
exteriorto himself, and forever be tossedhither and thither....

 —Omraam M. Aivanhov

 A man is called selfish, not for pursuinghis own good, but for
neglecting hisneighbor’s....	— Richard Whatly

 The selfish man can stand up to hischin in water and still be
thirsty....

 —Anonymous

 It is from selfishness that everythingevil proceeds. Study all the
vices, andyou will see that selfishness is at thebottom of them all.
Combat them asyou will, you will never succeed inextirpating them until,
attacking theevil in it root, you have destroyed theselfishness which is
their cause. Let allyour efforts tend to this end; forselfishness is the
veritable social

 gangrene....	— Allan Kardec

 418  ♦?	 Self-Realization

 	

  Self-Realization 

 M

 an is self-realized when theSpirit realizes that man is One

 with God, and conducts himself in allhis experiences in conformity with
thatself realization....God and man areone....	 —FraterAchad

 We know what we are, but know not what we may be....

 —William Shakespeare

 Self-realization is nothing but seeing God literally. Our greatest
mistake is that we think of God as acting symbolically and
allegorically, instead of practically and literally....You must get rid
of the idea that you are yet to realize the Self. You are the Self here
and now....	— Ramana Maharshi

 The awareness of being the witness of everything is the secret of
self-realization....	— Sathya Sai Baba

 Realization is self-evident. It shines by its own light....	— Papa
Ramdas

 Realizations are personal, one cannot borrow or have the same
realization as another person, nor can one take the same path....With
realization, spirit abides in itself. Communion is within the whole,
freedom is its essence. The absolute is, and I never was separate....

 —A Spiritual Warrior

 Self-realization means I am completely full, I don’t want to know
anything, I don’t require anything at all now....

 —Nisargadatta

 There’s only one corner of the universe you can be certain of
improving: that’s your own self....	 —Aldous Huxley

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Self-Realization

 Earth is the theatre on which we play the game of life. It is the stage
where we struggle to attain the supreme beatitude of life. It is the
field in which we prepare ourselves for Self-realization....	— Papa
Ramdas

 One cannot get a true feeling about God from the study of
books....books, Scriptures and science appear as mere dirt and straw
after the realization of God....	— Ramakrishna

 Human life has been given to you for the sole purpose of realizing the
Self. If you die without realizing the Self your life has been wasted.
Death can come at any time....	— Annamalai Swami

 Why speak of Self-realization in the future? It is here and now—only
the veil that hides it has to be destroyed....

 —Anandamayi Ma

 What is worship? To realize reality....

 —Ansari

 It is only by forgetting yourself that you draw nearer to God....

 —Henry D. Thoreau

 The Higher Self is realized not by doing something, but by refraining
from doing anything, by remaining still and being simply what one really
is....

 —G.  V. Subbaramayya

 If there is a thing easiest of all it is the attainment of
self-realization; because one is not required to do anything for it. Is
there anything easier than remaining without doing anything?...

 —Gopala Swamy

 Man’s ultimate aim is the realization of God, and all of his
activities—social, religious—have to be guided by the ultimate aim
of the vision of God....

 —Mohandas Gandhi

 Self-Realization

 Self-realization is not a matter of withdrawal from a corrupt world or
narcissistic contemplation of oneself. An individual becomes a person by
enjoying the world and contributing to it....	— Francine Klagsbrun

 No one can tell us in truth that we can never know ourselves. It simply
isn’t true. We can not but know ourselves....

 —Iris Belhayes

 At the point of realization there is no ego. That’s when the shadow
realizes it’s a shadow....	— Satchidananda

 Self-realization is real religion, all the rest is only
preparation—hearing lectures, or reading books, or reasoning, is
merely preparing the ground; it is not religion....	— Vivekananda

 This above all: to thine own self be true....	— William Shakespeare

 The Self is hidden in the deepest cave of the heart....	— The
Upanishads

 The realized man finds himself in others—they are not different from
himself. With wise men he is wise, but with ignorant men he becomes
ignorant, with children he will play and with the learned he will be
scholarly....	— Ramana Maharshi

 Those who attain Self-realization on earth live a twofold existence.
Conscientiously performing their work in the world, they are yet
immersed in an inward beatitude.... — Yukteswar

 Self-realization means that we have been consciously connected with our
Source of being. Once we have made this connection then nothing can go
wrong....	— Paramananda

 ♦?  419  ♦?

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Self-Realization

 No action is more fascinating than the action of self-transformation.
Nothing on earth can compare with its drama or its value....	— Vernon
Howard

 Before we can change others, we must first change ourselves. This is a
case of where charity really does begin at home, and by beginning to
cleanse ourselves of those fears and dreads, uncertainties, wishful
thinking, might be’s and maybe’s, we come to a complete acceptance
of spiritual realization....	— Ronald Beesley

 The man or woman who realizes God has everything and lacks nothing.
Having this, one desires nothing further; he cannot be shaken by the
heaviest burden of sorrow. Life cannot threaten such a person; all it
holds is the opportunity to love, to serve, and to give....	— Eknath
Easwaran

 What stands between a man and his Self-realization is metaphysical
ignorance; and the ultimate goal....is the elimination of that
ignorance....

 —Amaury de Reincourt

 When we have realized God in all His fullness and perfection, then we
have no difficulties and no obstacles in life. We adjust our life
according to the conditions and circumstances in which God places us. We
have no reason to grumble, complain or feel unhappy at anytime....	—
Papa Ramdas

 No one is ever away from his Self and therefore everyone is in fact
Selfrealized; only—and this is a great mystery—people do not know
this and want to realize the Self. Realization consists only in getting
rid of the false idea that one is not realized. It is not anything new
to be acquired....

 —Ramana Maharshi

 420 *	Self-Reliance

 Who stands already on heaven’s topmost dome needs not to search for
ladders....	— Rumi

 For realization, effort is needed but grace is also required, and grace
is more important....	 —Lakshmana

 &

  Self-Reliance 

 P

 ray to God but continue to rowthe boat to shore....

 —Russian proverb

 No one can build his security upon the nobleness of another person....

 —Will a Cather

 Once you really know that nobody can take from you what is really
yours, you stop trying to protect it....

 —Theodora Wells

 Don’t believe anyone who promises to help you. No one will help you
because no one can. Another may point the way, but you have to do the
walking....

 —Yoga Swami

 You are your own physician. You are your own savior and redeemer.
Nobody can give you freedom. You will have to tread the spiritual path
yourself. Rely on your own self-exertion. Teachers and books can only
help you to a certain extent...	— Sivaiianda

 He who is being carried does not realize how far the next town is....

 —African proverb

 It is easy to be independent when all behind you agree with you, but
the difficulty comes when nine-hundred and ninety-nine of your friends
think you wrong....	— Wendell Phillips

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Self-Reliance	*	4

 Do not seek from another, or you will be estranged from self....

 —Dongshan

 Only those means of security are good, are certain, are lasting, that
depend on yourself and your own vigor....

 —Niccolo Machiavelli

 Never play another person’s game. Play your own....	 —Andrew Salter

 The only person I control in the entire world is me....	 —Ralph
Stayer

 Self-reliance as commonly understood is ego-reliance and it worsens
bondage. Reliance on God alone is true self- reliance....	 -—Ramana
Maharshi

 The individual must be self-reliant and, in a sense, self-sufficient,
or else he goes down....  —Luther Burbank

 Remember this point well. No one can save another. You will have to
depend upon yourself alone....	 —Sivananda

 Everyone can raise himself, but only by his own actions....  —Nahman
Bratzlav

 You must rely upon yourself. The influence of a saint may give you a
push on the spiritual path, but you have to tread the path yourself....

 —Ramcharandas

 If another drinks, does it quench your thirst? If another eats, does it
appease your hunger? If another sleeps, does it rest you? Who, then,
shall develop your understanding?...  —Gautama Buddha

 A  man is best off if he is thrown upon his own resources, and can be
all in all to himself, and Cicero goes so far as to say that a man who
is in this condition cannot fail to be happy....

 —Arthur Schopenhauer

 1 *	Self-Reliance

 The man who is self-reliant, always says: “No one can realize my
possibilities for me, but me; no one can make me good or evil but
myself.” He works out his own salvation, financially, socially,
mentally, physically, and morally. Life is an individual problem that
man must solve for himself....	 —William G. Jordan

 Even in the common affairs of life, in love, friendship, and marriage,
how little security have we when we trust our happiness in the hands of
others....

 —William Hazlitt

 Mankind has a way of proclaiming self-reliance in a loud voice, but
seldom is the dependency upon a higher force for every breath ever
mentioned....	 —Anonymous

 My true being, the essence of my nature, myself, remains inviolate and
inaccessible to the world’s attacks....

 —Henri F. Amiel

 No person can save another....

 —Joyce C. Oates

 You can depend upon no man, upon no friend, but on him who depends upon
himself. Only he who acts beneficially towards himself will act so
towards others....	 —John K. Lavater

 Society everywhere is in conspiracy against the manhood of every one of
its members....Self-reliance is an aversion....	 —Ralph W. Emerson

 They can conquer who believe they can....	 —Virgil

 There is no virue greater than self-reliance. The possession of this
important quality is a  sine qua non  for all aspirants who search after
Truth....

 —Sivananda

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Self-Reliance	*	422

  •***■?

 Believe your strength....Learn to repeat endlessly to yourself. “It
all depends on me.”...	— Andre Gide

 The man who makes everything that leads to happiness depend upon
himself, and not upon other men, has adopted the very best plan for
living happily....	— Plato

 Help thyself, and God will be there....

 —George Herbert

 Nature has not said to me, “Be not poor,” still less, “Be
rich.” She calls out to me, “Be independent.”...

 —Sebastien Chamfort

 In the last resort everyone is his own authority....	— Lakshmana
Sarma

 The strongest man in the world is he who stands most alone....	—
Henrik Ibsen

 Self-help is the capacity to stand on one’s legs without anybody’s
help...

 —Mohandas Gandhi

 It is not the greatness of man’s means that makes him independent, so
much as the smallness of his wants....

 —William Cobbett

 God helps those who help themselves....

 -—Benjamin Franklin

 Heaven never helps the man who will not act....	— Sophocles

 Rely upon yourself, trust yourself, and others will trust you
unquestion- ingly....For the self-helping man, all doors are flung
open....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 You must live within yourself and depend on yourself, always tucked up
and ready for a start....

 —Henry D. Thoreau

 qfc

  Self-Reliance 

 No bird soars too high, if he soars with his own wings....	— William
Blake

 Self-reverence, self-knowledge, self- control, these three alone lead
to sovereign power.... -— Alfred L. Tennyson

 Every tub must stand on its own bottom....	— Charles Machlin

 God gives food to every bird, but he does not throw it into the
nest....

 —Hindu saying

 Why do you look at me? Look at your own self. Why do you listen to me?
Listen to your own self....trust in your own inner voice....	— Peace
Pilgrim

 I have ever held it a maxim, never to do through another what it was
possible for me to do myself....

 —Charles Montesquieu

 Self-reliance is only a part of the picture. When we carry it to the
extreme, we cut ourselves off from others and from the nourishment we
need from them....	— Melvyn Kinder

 If you will only help yourself, God will help you....	— Mathurin

 To blame society for one’s own deficiency is like blaming the pillow
for the headache one suffers....

 —Sathya Sai Baba

 There is no use whatsoever trying to help people who do not help
themselves. You cannot push anyone up a ladder unless he is willing to
climb himself....	— Andrew Carnegie

 Self-reliance and self-respect are about as valuable commodities as we
can carry in our pack through life....

 —Luther Burbank

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Self-Reliance	*	4

 God only helps when men can help no more....	— Johann von Schiller

 Reliance on one’s apparent self leads to ruin. To presume to be all
knowing is extremely harmful. Self-reliance or self-confidence means
faith in the higher self....	— Turiyananda

 The strength whereby God saves is the strength that is our own....

 —Israel Zangwill

 True self-reliance does not mean reliance on one's physical strength;
it means reliance on something mightier, something which is less
perishable....It means trusting in the spiritual....

 —Paramananda

 Self-confidence without self-reliance is as useless as a cooking recipe
without food. Self-confidence sees the possibilities of the individual;
self-reliance realizes them. Self-confidence sees the angel in the
unhewn block of marble; self-reliance carves it out for himself....

 —William G. Jordan

 The old saying that “God help him who helps himself” is true in
more senses than one. It is true in the sense that the Higher Aid seems
to refuse to come to the assistance of one who is not willing to strike
out for himself and do his best....	— William W. Atkinson

 &

  Service 

 S

 ervice is the rent we pay for ourplace on earth....	— Anonymous

 Great opportunities to help others seldom come, but small ones surround
us daily....	— Sally Koch

 3 *	Service

 When a blind man carries a lame man, both are able to go forward....

 —Swedish proverb

 Often we can help each other most by leaving each other alone; at other
times we need the hand-grasp and the word of cheer....	— Elbert
Hubbard

 To bring joy to one heart with love—is better than a thousand
litanies....

 —Sufi saying

 We cannot actually help others; we can only love, share, encourage and
set an example by which others can learn to help themselves....

 —A Spiritual Warrior

 He is the greatest man who is the servant of all....	—Sivananda

 If you make your mind pure, you automatically help everyone in the
world because each person will receive a cleansing and healing measure
of your own purity....	— Annamalai Swami

 Trying to help the world without knowing yourself will be just like a
blind man trying to treat the diseases of the eyes of others. First,
clear your own eyes....	— Ramana Maharshi

 If you hear that a sick man is in need of hot soup, I counsel you to
wake up from your ecstasy and warm the soup for him. Leave God to serve
God; find Him and serve Him in His members; you will lose nothing by the
change....

 —John Ruysbroeck

 It is the individual who is not interested in his fellow man who has
the greatest difficulties in life and provides the greatest injury to
others. It is from among such individuals that all human failures
spring....

 —Alfred Adler

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Service	*	424

 Life is best spent in alleviating pain, assuaging distress, and
promoting peace and joy. The service of man is more valuable than what
you call “service to God.” God has no need of your service. Please
man, you please God....	 —Sathya Sai Baba

 Small service is true service....The daisy, by the shadow that it
casts, protects the lingering dewdrop from the sun....	 —William
Wordsworth

 It is true that if we look after others, God will look after us—and
do a lot better job of it than we can....

 —Arthur E. Yensen

 Desire to sow no seed for your own harvesting; desire only to sow that
seed, the fruit of which shall feed the world. You are a part of the
world; in giving it food you feed yourself....

 —Mabel Collins

 One of the things I keep learning is that the secret of being happy is
doing things for other people....

 —Dick Gregory

 It is plain that we exist for our fellow men....	 —Albert Einstein

 The way you begin to change the world is through service....  —Martin
L. King, Jr.

 The highest service is, after getting for yourself the knowledge of the
Divine, to share with others that knowledge and rouse in their hearts
devotion for and faith in God....	 —Papa Ramdas

 The leader is a servant....

 —Max De Pree

 At the heart of silence is prayer. At the heart of prayer is faith. At
the heart of faith is life. At the heart of life is service....	
—Mother Teresa

  Service 

 Good works are valuable only as a means of becoming free. They do good
to the doer, never to any other....

 —Vivekananda

 The leader is chief servant of the tribe....	 —Mohammed

 He who has seen, known and realized most fully the truth of the
identity of all selves in the one Self, he is the greatest and most free
and willing servant....	 —Bhagavan Das

 There is nothing small in the service of God....	 —Francis de Sales

 The motive, if you are to find inner peace, must be an outgoing motive.
Service, of course, service. Giving, not getting. Your motive must be
good if your work is to have good effect. The secret of life is being of
service....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 Joy can be real only if people look upon their life as a service, and
have a definite object in life outside themselves and their personal
happiness....

 —Leo Tolstoy

 Certain is it that the memories which afford us the greatest
satisfaction are those of when we served others rather than when others
served us....

 — R. MacDonald Ladell

 Service of God consists in what we do to our neighbor....	 —Leo Baeck

 Service rendered as a gift or love- offering to Life: work that is
engaged in, not for self or for profit, but as an act of love and
service, these bring the doer a harvest of blessings....When we serve
and when we give, we open ourselves to receive life’s richest
blessings, its greatest prizes, and its most enduring success....

 —Henry T. Hamblin

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Service	*	4

 Proclaim yourself solemnly and joyfully, “Servant of God.”...

 —Samuel Hirsch

 You can’t live a perfect day without doing something for someone who
will never be able to repay you....

 —John Wooden

 The more you care about others, the more confidently you act. There is
nothing you cannot do, no defeat you cannot survive, no fear you cannot
overcome, when you are concentrated heart and soul in helping others....

 —Robert O’Brien

 God has so constituted our nature that we cannot be happy unless we
are, or think we are, the means of good to others....	— Erskine Mason

 The greatest service we can do for another is to help him help himself.
To help him directly might be weakening, though not necessarily. It
depends entirely upon circumstances. But to help one to help himself is
never weakening, but always encouraging and strengthening, because it
leads him to a larger and stronger life....

 —Ralph W. Trine

 The great happiness in life is not to donate but to serve....

 —Louis Brandeis

 Doing nothing for others is the undoing of ourselves....

 —Horace Mann

 All other pleasures and possessions pale into nothingness before
service which is rendered in a spirit of joy....

 —Mohandas Gandhi

 If you would find greater joy in life, attempt to serve and please
someone every day....	— John H. Crowe

 5 *	Service

 Get outside yourself. Stress causes people to turn into themselves and
focus on their own problems. Try something for someone else. Or find
something other than yourself and your accomplishments to care about....

 —Donald Tubesing

 No one has ever risen to the real stature of spiritual maturity until
they have found it finer to serve someone else than to serve
themselves....

 —Anonymous

 Through our willingness to help others we can learn to be happy rather
than depressed....	— Gerald Jampolsky

 The best way for one to serve the world is to win the egoless state. If
you are anxious to help the world but think you cannot do so by
attaining the egoless state, then surrender to God all the world’s
problems along with your own....	— Ramana Maharshi

 Who hath not served cannot command....	— John Florio

 What do we live for if not to make the world less difficult for each
other....

 —George Eliot

 The superior man....is eyes for the blind, strength for the weak, and a
shield for the defenseless. He stands erect by bending above the fallen.
He rises by lifting others....

 —Robert Ingersoll

 No one is useless in this world who lightens the burdens of it for
another....

 —Charles Dickens

 Love lies in service. Only that which is done not for fame or name, nor
for appreciation or thanks of those for whom it is done, is life's
service....

 —Hazrat Inayat Khan

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Service	*	426 	♦?	 Service

 	 ■?q K .	

 He who wishes to secure the good of others has already secured his
own....

 —Confucius

 For though I be free from all men, I have made myself servant unto all,
that I might gain the more....

 —Paul of Tarsus

 There is no lonely pilgrim on the way to light. Men only gain the
heights by helping others gain the heights....

 —The Aquarian Gospel

 Little kindnesses....will broaden your heart and slowly you will
habituate yourself to helping your fellow man in many ways....	— Zadik

 It is not what we see and touch or that which others do for us which
makes us happy; it is that which we think and feel and do, first for the
other fellow and then for ourselves....

 —Helen Keller

 SERVICE. A beautiful word fallen upon bad days....	— Claude McKay

 This only is true service—to forget oneself in love towards all, to
lose oneself in working for the whole....

 —James Allen

 To be a servant of God is man’s greatest boast....	— Philo

 The way that lies at the foundation of positive change, the way I see
it, is service to a fellow human being....

 —Lech Walesa

 The test of real service of God is that it leaves behind it the feeling
of humility.... — Israel Baal Shem Tov

 Service is like a burning candle: it lights the path for others while
consuming itself....	— Anonymous

 To live is not to live for one’s self alone;

 let us help one another	

 —Menander of Athens

 He only does not live in vain who employs his wealth, his thought, his
speech to advance the good of others....

 -—Hindu proverb

 Do all the good you can, by all the means you can, in all the ways you
can, in all the places you can, all the times you can, to all the people
you can, as long as you can....	— John Wesley

 All service of God must be performed with gladness and zest, otherwise
it is not perfect....	— The Zohar

 The most acceptable service of God is doing good to man....

 —Benjamin Franklin

 Service to a just cause rewards the worker with more real happiness and
satisfaction than any other venture of life....	— Carrie C. Catt

 The worst days of darkness through which I have passed have been
greatly alleviated by throwing myself with all my energy into some work
relating to others....	— James A. Garfield

 He that is greatest among you shall be your servant....	— Jesus

 If your loyality is to your family, you are a servant of the family; if
it is to God, you are a servant of God....

 —Sathya Sai Baba

 Men resemble the gods in nothing so much as in doing good to their
fellow creatures....	— Cicero

 He who does not know about service knows even less about Mastership....

 —Tirmizi

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Service	*	4

 The value of all service lies in the spirit in which you serve and not
in the importance or magnitude of the service. Even the lowliest task or
deed is made holy, joyous, and prosperous when it is filled with
love....

 —Charles Fillmore

 We may serve God by digging with the hands or by talking friendly with
our neighbor....	 -—Robert	Benson

 Give service priority in your life over all the other superficial
things that customarily clutter human life....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 Let service be the motto of your life— service not for the petty
self, not for name or fame, not for your own low satisfactions, but
service for the spontaneous joy which it yields you....

 —Papa Ramdas

 I am the servant of servants....

 —Krishna

 I slept and dreamt that life was joy. I awoke and saw that life was
service. I acted and behold, service was joy....

 —Rabindranath Tagore

 There is nothing you cannot do, no defeat you cannot survive, no fear
you cannot overcome, when you are concentrated heart and soul in helping
others....	— Robert O’Brien

 I can’t help thousands. I can help only the one who stands before
me....

 —Mother Teresa

 We need to be needed. Service to others can give us a new purpose in
life....

 —Abbe Pierre

 No one has learned the meaning of living until he has surrendered his
ego to the service of his fellow man....

 —Walter B. Wolfe

 7 *	Service

 It is one of the most beautiful compensations of this life that no man
can sincerely try to help another without helping himself....Serve and
thou shall be served. If you love and serve men, you cannot, by any
hiding or stratagem, escape the remuneration....	— Ralph W. Emerson

 Service does not mean making other people lazy, nor does it require us
to assume individual responsibility for other people’s lives: neither
does service require us to interfere....Service needs wisdom more than
any other talent, and it is this question of wisdom that each individual
must decide for himself....	— Ronald Beesley

 Always try to serve others. Don’t even call it helping, call it
service because you are benefitted by that. If a man begs from you and
you give him something, you shouldn’t think you are helping him.
Instead, he is helping you....	— Satchidananda

 One of the great underlying principles governing our life is service.
Most of us have to work, but do we serve? Do we work in a spirit of
service? Do we work for Life and our fellows? Or do we merely work for
self, in order to make a living?...	— Henry T. Hamblin

 Perhaps the greatest service any man performs is not in the importance
of his work, but in the release of his inner powers. He makes a greater
gift to his fellow men in becoming a freed spirit than by a score of
scientific discoveries or hundreds of works of art....

 —David Seabury

 The purpose of life is to increase the warm heart. Think of other
people. Serve other people sincerely. No cheating....	— Dalai Lama

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Service	*	428

 	 ispc

 Down in their hearts, the wise menknow this truth: the only way to
helpyourself is to help others....

 —Anonymous

 Men exist for mutual service....

 —Marcus Aurelius

 Service without humility is selfishnessand egotism....	— Mohandas
Gandhi

 They serve God well, who serve hiscreations....	— Caroline Norton

 &

  Silence 

 hat is it that stands higher thanwords? Action. What is it that

 stands higher than action? Silence....

 —Francis of Assisi

 Blessed is the man who, having nothing to say, abstains from giving us
worldly evidence of the fact....

 —George Eliot

 There is silence when you realize that there is nothing to gain and
nothing to lose....	— Yoga Swami

 The still mind of the sage is a mirror of heaven and earth—the glass
of all things....	— Chuang Tse

 What a strange power there is in silence....	— Ralph W. Emerson

 Nothing is so good for any ignorant man as silence; and if he was
sensible of this he would not be ignorant....

 —Saadi

 When the oak is felled the whole forest echoes with its fall, but a
hundred acorns are sown in silence by an unnoticed breeze....	— Thomas
Carlyle

  Silence 

 True silence really means going deep within yourself to that place
where nothing is happening, where you transcend time and space. You go
into a brand new dimension of nothingness. That’s where all the power
is. That’s your real home. That’s where you really belong, in deep
Silence where there is no good or bad, no one trying to achieve
anything. Just being, pure being....Silence is the ultimate reality....
— Robert Adams

 If the mind can get quiet enough, something sacred will be revealed....

 -—Helen Tworkov

 Silence gives us a new way of looking at something....	— Mother
Teresa

 As long as someone cries out “Oh God! Oh God!” be sure that he has
not found God, for whoever has found him becomes still....	—
Ramakrishna

 Silence is one of the hardest arguments to refute....	— Josh Billings

 The absence of language simply makes the presence of silence more
apparent....	— Max Picard

 Silence is often the highest form of praise. To praise a flawless pearl
is to deprecate it....	— Judah ofKfar

 Be silent that the Lord who gave thee language may speak....

 —Divani Shamsi Tabriz

 There is silence, the child of love, which expresses everything, and
proclaims more loudly than the tongue is able to do....	— Vittorio
Alfieri

 The truest communication with God is absolute, total silence; there is
not a single word in existence that can convey this communication....

 —Bernadette Roberts

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Silence

 ♦?  429  ♦?

 Silence

 To be in mental quiet is to observe the mind’s own nature....	—
Lao-tzu

 Silence has a wonderful creative power. Make a study of the lives of
great men. They conceive an idea but they do not go out and shout it to
the world; they think silently and work quietly until they realize their
ideal....

 —Paramananda

 God will not enter into your heart until it is empty and still....	—
Paul Brunton

 He (the American Indian) believes profoundly in silence—the sign of a
perfect equilibrium. Silence is the absolute poise or balance of the
body, mind and spirit....	— Ohiyesa

 A fool cannot be silent..

 -Greek proverb

 Silence is the element in which great things fashion themselves
together....

 —Thomas Carlyle

 Silence is as full of potential wisdom and wit as the unhewn marble of
great sculpture....	— Aldous Huxley

 Do not even listen, simply wait. Do not even wait, be quiet, still and
solitary. The world will freely offer itself to you to be unmasked, it
has no choice, it will roll in ecstasy at your feet....

 —Franz Kafka

 Be silent and safe—silence never betrays you....	— John B.
O’Reilly

 Silence is the language God speaks, and everything else is a bad
translation....

 —Thomas Keating

 A  periodical decree of silence is not a torture but a blessing....

 —Mohandas Gandhi

 Any trial whatever that comes to you can be conquered by silence....

 —Abbot Pastor

 Avoid action, and keep the silence; all the rest is commentary....	—
Lich-tse

 Be content to feed on ecstasy, for stillness is the perfect likeness of
divinity....

 —Marpa

 It is easier to be altogether silent than not to exceed in words....

 —Thomas a Kemp is

 It is as important to cultivate your silence-power as it is your word-
power....	— William James

 Go placidly amid the noise and the haste, and remember what peace there
may be in silence....	— Max Ehrmann

 Silence is the cornerstone of character....	— American Indian saying

 I like the silent church, before the service begins, better than
preaching....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 The most silent people are generally those who think most highly of
themselves. ...	— William Hazlitt

 We all have within us a center of stillness surrounded by silence....

 —Dag Hammarskjold

 We need to find God, but we cannot find Him in noise, in excitement.
See how nature, the trees, the flowers, the grass grow in deep silence.
See how the stars, the moon, and the sun move in silence....	— Mother
Teresa

 True silence is the rest of the mind, and is to the spirit what sleep
is to the body, nourishment and refreshment....

 —William Penn

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Silence 	♦?	 430	*	Silence

 	vp?	

 Listen in the silence....Listen and you shall hear God speak....The
chamber of silence is man’s divine self. It is there that man meets
man’s God....

 —Frater Achad

 There is no explanation quite so effective as silence.... — Alfred A.
Montapert

 Silence fertilizes the deep place where personality grows. A life with
a peaceful center can weather all storms....

 —Norman V. Peale

 Nothing in all creation is so like God as stillness....	— Meister
Eckhart

 The necessity of inward stillness has appeared clearly to my mind. In
true silence strength is renewed, the mind is weaned from all things
save as they may be enjoyed in the divine Will....

 —John Woolman

 He can never speak well who knows not how to hold his peace....	—
Plutarch

 We need a reason to speak, but none to keep silent....	— Pierre
Nicole

 Verily, he who speaks noble truths, and gives utterance to the Word of
God, observes the vow of silence. Silence is restraint of speech....

 —Srimad Bhagavatam

 Silence is becoming to the wise and even more so to the fool....

 —The Talmud

 Silence is the language of the Real....

 —Sunyata

 It is better to be silent, or to say things of more value than
silence....

 —Pythagoras

 Silence is a true friend who never betrays....	— Confucius

 The world would be happier if men had the same capacity to be silent
that they have to speak....

 —Baruch Spinoza

 There are silent depths in the ocean which storms that lash the surface
into fury never reach....	— Orison S. Marden

 Silence and meditation are the rungs on which one climbs to the Higher
Worlds....	— Harry Sackler

 The only language able to express the wholeness of truth is silence.
Silence is our eternal speech. Silence is ever speaking. It is a
perennial flow of language which is interrupted by speaking....	—
Ramana Maharshi

 Everything that does us good is so apt to do us harm too, that it is a
strong argument for men to be quiet....

 —Lord Halifax

 Silence of the sewn-up lips is no silence. One may achieve the same
result by chopping off one's tongue, but that too would not be silence.
He is silent who, having the capacity to speak, utters no idle word....

 —Mohandas Gandhi

 The spiritual teachers of humanity, who have attained the peak of inner
development, are said to be in eternal Silence, using their mental
powers only when necessary to communicate with earthly men....	— Mouni
Sadhu

 Life teaches us silently while men utter their instruction in loud
voices....

 —Paul Brunton

 An inability to stay quiet, an irritable desire to act directly, is one
of the most conspicuous failings of mankind....

 —Walter Bagehot

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Silence	*	4

 Silence is more eloquent than words....

 —Thomas Carlyle

 Let silence be your general rule; or say only what is necessary and in
few words....	— Epictetus

 We can do more work in the silence than we can by moving the lips and
letting the mouth make a continuous noise. That interferes with our own
thinking as well as with other people’s. There is a stillness in a
thinker’s mind; there is a quietness in a thinker’s presence, where
even words are entirely unnecessary....	— Ronald Beesley

 Silence is wisdom’s best reply....

 —Euripides

 Rumors and slander are answered best with silence....	— Ben Jonson

 There is one thing we can always do, no matter what things appear
before us. We can mentally stand still, very undemanding, and determine
to let the infinite nature of God unfold itself in our lives....	—
Margaret Stortz

 Silence is the language of God: it is also the language of the
heart....

 -—Sivananda

 A happy life must be to a great extent a quiet life, for it is only in
an atmosphere of quiet that true joy can live....

 —Bertrand Russell

 The highest thoughts are those least dependent on language....

 —John Ruskin

 The first virtue is to restrain the tongue. He approaches nearest the
gods who knows how to be silent, even though he is in the right.... —
Cato

 Power rests in tranquility....

 —Richard Cecil

 1 *	Silence

 The ancient sentence said, “Let us be silent for so are the gods.”
Silence is a solvent that destroys personality, and gives us leave to be
great and universal....	— Ralph W. Emerson

 Silence is a healing for all ailments....

 —Babylonian Talmud

 Concentrated power is silence. Diffused power is noise....When you
reach the place of silence in mind, you have reached the place of power,
the place where all is one....	— Baird Spalding

 The most important thing is silence....We cannot place ourselves
directly in God’s presence without imposing upon ourselves interior
and exterior silence....	— Mother Teresa

 Silence is the essential condition of happiness....	— Heinrich Heine

 Speech is silver, silence is golden; speech is human, silence is
divine....

 —German proverb

 As there are silent depths in the ocean which the fiercest storm cannot
reach, so there are silent, holy depths of the heart of man which the
storm of sin and sorrow can never disturb. To reach this silence and to
live consciously in it is peace....	— James Allen

 God is a word, an unspoken word....

 —Meister Eckhart

 Prayer begins by talking to God, but it ends by listening to Him. In
the face of Absolute Truth, silence is the soul’s language....	—
Fulton J. Sheen

 Silence has a regenerative power of its own. It is always sacred. It
always returns you home....

 —Barbara De Angelis

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Silence	*	4

 Silence is man’s chief learning....

 —Palladas

 The more you talk about It, the more you think about It, the further
from It you go. Stop talking, stop thinking, and there is nothing you
will not understand....	— Seng-Ts’an

 If you have difficulty finding your place in the life pattern try
seeking in receptive silence....Still your mind and listen to the urging
of the higher will....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 &

  Simplicity 

 T

 he ability to simplify means toeliminate the unnecessary so that

 the necessary may speak....

 —Hans Hofmann

 The price we pay for the complexity oflife is too high....	— Jean
Baudrillard

 Our purpose in life is to realize the Self.It is an easy matter to get
a little foodand find somewhere congenial to liveand meditate. Once we
have achievedthis we should have no further interestin the world and its
problems....

 —Annamalai Swami

 Purity and simplicity are the two wingswith which man soars above the
earthand all temporary nature....

 —Thomas a Kempis

 How much there is in the world I donot want....	— Socrates

 It does not matter whether one paints apicture, writes a poem, or
carves a stat-ue—simplicity is the mark of a mas-

 ter-hand....	— Elsie De Wolfe

 2  ♦?	 Simplicity

 We have very little, so we have nothing to be preoccupied with. The
more you have, the more you are occupied, the less you give. But the
less you have, the more free you are....  —-Mother Teresa

 Life itself can be very simple, it is we who insist on making life
complicated....	— Anonymous

 How soon will you realize that the only thing you don’t have is the
direct experience that there’s nothing you need that you don’t
have.... — Ken Keyes, Jr.

 Nothing is better than simplicity....

 —Walt Whitman

 The greatness of simplicity comes in no small way, from an appreciation
of truth and beauty....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 The average man is apt to attempt more than he can accomplish, to seek
to acquire more than he needs and to exhaust himself in senseless
competition....	— Alice H. Rice

 A  simple life is its own reward....

 —George Santayana

 There is nothing to chase after. We can go back to ourselves, enjoy our
breathing, our smiling, ourselves, and our beautiful environment....

 —Thick Nhat Hanh

 People don’t want simplicity, they want something complicated....

 —Lakshmana

 The simplification of life is one of the steps to inner peace. A
persistent simplification will create an inner and outer well-being that
places harmony in one’s life. For me this began with the discovery of
the meaninglessness of possessions beyond my actual and immediate
needs....	— Peace Pilgrim

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Simplicity 	♦?	 433

 ~ 	*<fip5 s

 A man who has gained access to Divinity, he has simplified his whole
life....

 —Paramananda

 Simple living will help you to control thoughts. If you lead a simple
life, you have only very few wants and you will have to think a little
only....

 -—Sivananda

 Simplicity, simplicity, simplicity! I say let your affairs be as one,
two, three and not a hundred or a thousand....We are happy in proportion
to the things we can do without....

 —Henry D. Thoreau

 Few things are needed to make a wise man happy; nothing can make a
foolish man content, and that is why most men are miserable....

 —Francois La Rochefoucauld

 The art of simplicity is simply to simplify....Simplicity avoids the
superficial, penetrates the complex, goes to the heart of the problem,
and pinpoints the key factors. Simplicity does not beat around the bush.
It does not take winding detours. It follows a straight line to the
objective. Simplicity is the shortest distance between two points....

 —Wilferd Peterson

 If you wish to give happiness, do not multiply possessions, but reduce
wants. It is not the man who has too little, but the man who craves
more, that is poor...	— Seneca

 To live a life of faith in utter dependence upon God is very simple. It
is the simplest life possible. It is the only life entirely free from
the complications which afflict all those who depend upon human effort
and finite wisdom. But while it is simple, it is far from easy....	—
Henry T. Hamblin

 Simplicity

 You lose the very life you seek when you wallow in stupid luxuries. You
don’t need nine-tenths of the things you scramble for. Don’t be
afraid to have nothing. Happiness is not what you have, but who you are.
You are already who you need to be....

 —Diogenes

 Half the confusion in the world comes from not knowing how little we
need....I live more simply now, and with more peace.... — Richard Byrd

 Very little is needed to make a happy life....	-— Ptolemy

 Voluntary simplicity involves both inner and other conditions. It means
singleness of purpose, sincerity and honesty within, as well as
avoidance of exterior clutter, of many possessions irrelevant to the
chief purpose of life....

 —Richard Gregg

 Life is not complex. We are complex. Life is simple and the simple
thing is the right thing....	— Oscar Wilde

 Nothing is more simple than greatness, indeed, to be simple is to be
great....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 Simplicity is making the journey of this life with just baggage
enough....

 —Charles D. Warner

 Simple style is like white light. It is complex but its complexity is
not obvious....	— Anatole France

 Possessions, outward success, publicity, luxury—to me these have
always been contemptible. I believe that a simple and unassuming manner
of life is best for everyone, best both for the body and the mind....
— Albert Einstein

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Simplicity

 434

 -  ‘Sp’ -

 Simplicity

 If you would imitate Nature, you should take her simplicity for your
model....	— Michael Sendivogius

 Less is more....

 -Robert Browning

 Simplicity, of all things, is the hardest to be copied....	— Richard
Steele

 Simplicity of life is the true secret of happiness. Unhampered
experience of joy which lies within comes out of simplicity. Your life
should never be complicated with too many things....

 -—Chidananda

 He who is satisfied with the simple needs of his nature, refusing the
superfluous delights of the world, will not be tempted by any
seductions....

 —Huai Nan Tzu

 I have lived long enough to learn how much there is I can really do
without....He is nearest to God who needs the fewest things....	—
Socrates

 The more complicated life becomes, the more people are attracted to
simple solutions....	— James Reston

 Simplicity lies concealed in this chaos, and it is only for us to
discover it....

 —Augustin Fresnel

 The simple wealth of nature is food and shelter....	— Philo

 In character, in manners, in style, in all things, the supreme
excellence is simplicity....	— Henry W. Longfellow

 The art of art, the glory of expression and the sunshine of the light
of letters, is simplicity....	— Walt Whitman

 Simplicity is the peak of civilization....

 —Jessie Sampter

 God, indeed, is not in want of anything, but the wise man is in want of
God alone. He therefore, who is in want of few things, and those
necessary, emulates him who is in want of nothing....

 — Sextus, the Pythagorean

 The more we have the less we own....

 —Meister Eckhart

 If everyone would take only according to his needs and would leave the
surplus to the needy, no one would be rich, no one poor, no one in
misery....

 — St. Bernard

 There is no way to fake simplicity....

 —Anonymous

 The higher the truth the simpler it is....

 —Abraham Kook

 The really great of the earth are always simple. Pomp and ceremony,
popes and kings, are toys for children....

 —Heinrich Heine

 Blessed are the simple, for they shall have much peace....

 —Thomas a Kempis

 I am bound to praise the simple life, because I have lived it and found
it good....	— John Burroughs

 The only simplicity that matters is the simplicity of the heart....

 — G. K. Chesterton

 The simplified life is a sanctified life, much more calm, much less
strife. Oh, what wondrous truths are unveiled— projects succeed which
had previously failed. Oh, how beautiful life can be, beautiful
simplicity.... — Peace Pilgrim

 Simplicity is the nature of great souls. They live and serve as incense
burners....	— Papa Ramdas

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Smile

 &

  Smile 

 A

  smile is ever the most bright andbeautiful with a tear upon it....

 —Walter S. Landor

 The unselfish effort to bring cheer to others will be the beginning of
a happier life for ourselves....	— Helen Keller

 We can not open our hearts to give out cheer without more cheer rushing
in to takes its place....	— Alice H. Rice

 The knowers of truth....are happy and smiling all the time...	— Yoga
Vasistha

 The greatest of all virtues is to be cheerful....	— Robert L.
Stevenson

 Some people are too tired to give you a smile. Give them one of yours,
as no one needs a smile so much as one who has none to give.... —
Frank I. Fletcher

 The secret of divine omnipotence resides in the eternal smile....

 —Eliphas Levi

 If in our daily life we can smile, if we can be peaceful and happy, not
only we, but everyone will profit from it. This is the most basic kind
of peace work....	— Thick Nhat Hanh

 Smiles are like pebbles cast into the water. The ripples spread and
spread....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 We shall never know all the good that a simple smile can do....

 —Mother Teresa

 The world belongs to the cheerful....The soul’s highest duty is to be
of good cheer....	— Ralph W. Emerson

 435  ♦?	 Smile

 All life is like a mirror. Smile at it and it smiles back at you. I
just put a big smile on my face and everyone smiles back....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 The cheerful live longest in years and afterwards in our regards.
Cheerfulness is the offshoot of goodness....

 —Christian Bovee

 The true source of cheerfulness is benevolence. The soul that
perpetually overflows with kindness and sympathy will always be
cheerful....

 —Parke Godwin

 Real hearty, healthy smiles bring down blood pressure and make for a
long life. I think when humor disappears humans are also finished....

 —Frantisek Dostal

 There are two kinds of smiles, genuine and artificial. Very often we
put on smiles, but the heart does not smile, only the lips and face take
part in it. This is not a real smile. When the heart is filled with joy,
it is reflected on the face as a smile. It is a natural outflow of
joy....	— Papa Ramdas

 A  wise man laughs and smiles through his eyes....The smile and
laughter through the eyes influence people tremendously. No energy leaks
if you smile through the eyes....	— Sivananda

 Every time a man smiles, and much more when he laughs, it adds
something to his fragment of life....

 —Laurence Sterne

 When we learn to smile at life, we shall find that the problems we
encounter dissolve....	-— Donald Curtis

 Cheerfulness is as natural to the heart of a man in strong health as
color is to his cheek....	— John Ruskin

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Smile 	♦?	 436	*	Smile

   	

 The mind that is cheerful and present will have no solicitude for the
future, and will meet the bitter occurrences of life with a smile....
— Horace

 Those who bring sunshine into the lives of others cannot keep it from
themselves....	— James M. Barrie

 Let no day then pass that ye do not speak a cheery and encouraging word
to someone....	— Edgar Cayce

 You find yourself refreshed by the presence of cheerful people. Why not
make earnest effort to confer that pleasure on others? Half the battle
is gained if you never allow yourself to say anything gloomy....	—
Lydia Child

 I have often been asked what I thought was the secret of Buddha’s
smile. It is— it can only be—that he smiled at himself for searching
all those years for what he already possessed....

 —Paul Brunton

 If you force yourself to smile, you’ll end up laughing. You will be
cheerful because you smile.... — Kenneth Goode

 The grandest of things are achieved with a light heart: allow your soul
to smile....	— Shirley MacLaine

 You have not fulfilled every duty unless you have fulfilled that of
being cheerful and pleasant....	— Charles Buxton

 If you’re not using your smile, you’re like a man with a million
dollars in the bank and no checkbook...	— Les Giblin

 Grin and bear it. You can lighten a problem’s weight if you brighten
up and smile. There is more power to a punch delivered in high spirits
than one delivered in low spirits....

 —Douglas Fairbanks

 Be cheerful always. There is no path but will be easier traveled, no
load but will be lighter, no shadow on the heart and brain but will lift
sooner for a person of determined cheerfulness....

 — A.  A  Willits

 If you can smile here and now with only that which is presently
available, then life is lived to the fullest....

 —Narayana

 Cheerfulness is the great lubricant of the wheels of life. It lightens
labor, diminishes difficulties, and mitigates misfortunes....	— Alfred
A. Montapert

 The burden of the self is lightened when I laugh at myself....

 —Rabindranath Tagore

 There are those who suffer greatly and they go their way full of
suffering. But if they meet someone whose face is bright with laughter,
he can quicken them with gladness.... — Martin Buber

 If good people would make their goodness agreeable, and smile instead
of frowning in their virtue, how many would they win to the good
cause....

 —James Usher

 Of cheerfulness....the more it is spent, the more of it remains....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 True humor springs not more from the head than from the heart. It is
not contempt; its essence is love. It issues not in laughter, but in
still smiles, which lie far deeper....	— Thomas Carlyle

 Mirth is like a flash of lightning that breaks through a gloom of
clouds and glitters for a moment; cheerfulness keeps up a kind of
daylight in the mind, and fills it with a steady and perpetual
serenity.... — Joseph Addison

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Smile

 The gloomy soul aggravates misfortune, while a cheerful smile often
dispels those mists that portend a storm....

 —Lydia Sigourney

 In speaking of others always be calm and cheerful....	— Teresa of
Avila

 My religion of life is always be cheerful....	— George Meredith

 The mind that is cheerful will have no concern for the future, and will
meet the bitterness of life with a smile....

 —Horace

 A fool raises his voice when he laughs, but a wise man smiles
quietly....

 —Ben Sirach

 Let no one ever come to you without leaving better and happier....to
children, to the poor, to all who suffer and are lonely, give always a
happy smile....

 —Mother Teresa

 Cheerfulness and content are great beautifiers and are faithful
preservers of youthful looks....	— Charles Dickens

 Smiles are contagious....Watch how quickly someone responds to you when
you are smiling at them. We are all spiritually unified in a joyous
universe....

 —Norma Hawkins

 Nature intended you to be the foun- tain-spring of cheerfulness....and
not the monument of despair and melancholy....	— Arthur Helps

 A cheerful friend is like a sunny day, which sheds its brightness on
all around....	— John Lubbock

 Cheerfulness is a friend of grace; it puts the heart in tune to praise
God....

 —John Watson

 437 *	Solitude

 M

  Solitude 

 Y

 ou find in solitude only what youtake to it....	— Juan R. Jimenez

 A solitude is an audience-chamber with God....	— Walter S. Landor

 The best of all is to Be alone to experience one’s soul in Silence.
To be nakedly alone, unseen, is better than anything in the world, a
relief like death. To Be—alone—is one of life’s greatest
delights....	— Sunyata

 Solitude is strength; to depend on the presence of the crowd is
weakness. The man who needs a mob to nerve him is much more alone than
he imagines....

 —Paul Brunton

 A man attached to desire cannot get solitude, wherever he may be; a
detached man is always in solitude....

 —Ramana Maharshi

 The more powerful and original a mind, the more it will incline towards
the religion of solitude....

 —Aldous Huxley

 The pain of leaving those you grow to love is only the prelude to
understanding yourself and others....

 —Shirley MacLaine

 Solitude is bearable only with God....

 —Andre Gide

 Solitude, if rightly used, becomes not only a privilege but a
necessity. Only a superficial soul fears to fraternize with itself....
— Alice H. Rice

 Companions be content to forsake, for solitude is president of the
divine assembly....	— Marpa

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Solitude 	♦?	 438	*	Solitude

 	 'tf? 	

 Very few things keep their charm in solitude; and if the solitude is
absolute and complete, everything turns irretrievably to ashes....

 —Fernando Savater

 Solitude can be frightening because it invites us to meet a stranger we
think we may not want to know—ourselves....

 —Melvyn Kinder

 Inside myself is a place, where I live all alone, and that’s where
you renew your springs that never dry up....

 —Pearl S. Buck

 Nowhere can a man find a quieter or more untroubled retreat than in his
own soul....	— Marcus Aurelius

 Solitude is fine when you are at peace with yourself and have something
definite to do....	— Johann W. Goethe

 Quiet minds cannot be perplexed or frightened but go on in fortune or
misfortune at their own private pace like the ticking of a clock during
a thunderstorm....	— Robert L. Stevenson

 Conversation enriches the understanding, but solitude is the school of
genius....	— Edward Gibbon

 No man will unfold the capacities of his own intellect who does not at
least checker his life with solitude....

 —Thomas De Quincey

 You will easily get illumination in solitude. Solitude has its charms.
Prepare yourself for life in seclusion....

 —Sivananda

 Only when one is connected to one’s own core is one connected to
others. And, for me, the core, the inner spring, can best be refound
through solitude....

 —Anne Morrow Lindbergh

 Solitude is often a way into the inner source, a way into our own
hearts, God’s heart, and the hearts of others....

 -—Matthew Fox

 Solitude takes away the cataracts and we get a glimpse of the world as
God sees it....	— Thomas M. MacDonald

 I find it wholesome to be alone the greater part of the time. To be in
company, even with the best, is soon wearisome and dissipating. I love
to be alone....	— Henry D. Thoreau

 Only in complete loneliness do we learn the true meaning of the words:
know thyself! For only then do we stand before our own true selves....

 — Hans-Ulrich Rieker

 Pioneers have to tread a lonely road. It is so in order that they may
stand out as great, solitary figures, which act as landmarks to guide
those who come after them....	— Henry T. Hambl in

 Through silence, solitary practice, and simple living, we begin to fill
the empty reservoir....	-— David A. Cooper

 Solitude is not out to deceive anyone; it does not pretend or
embellish; it has nothing to hide and invents nothing. It is completely
naked and without adornment; it knows nothing of shows or the applause
which poisons the mind. It has God as sole witness of its life and
actions....	— Petrarch

 No time is ever wasted that is spent in wordless solitude.... —
Anonymous

 Our language has wisely sensed the two sides of being alone. It has
created the word loneliness to express the pain of being alone. And it
has created the word solitude to express the glory of being alone....
— Paul Tillich

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Solitude	*	4

 Religion is what the individual does with his own solitariness. It runs
through three stages, if it evolves to its final satisfaction. It is the
transition from God the void to God the enemy, and from God the enemy to
God the companion....	— Alfred N. Whitehead

 Inspiration makes solitude anywhere....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 A man should not seek to see himself in running water, but in still
water. For only what is itself still can impart stillness into
others....	— Chuang Tse

 Solitude is the highest stage. Only in solitude can man attain....union
with the eternal God.... — Nahman Bratzlav

 Solitude gives birth to the original in us....	— Thomas Mann

 Every pious man should seek retirement and seclusion, and should only
in case of necessity associate with others....	— Maimonides

 Solitary trees, if they grow at all, grow strong....	— Winston
Churchill

 Man cannot survive without air, water and sleep. Next in importance
comes food. And close on its heels, solitude....

 —Thomas Szasz

 A  man alone is either a saint or a devil....	 —Richard	E. Burton

 To live a spiritual life we must first find the courage to enter into
the desert of loneliness and change it by gentle and persistent efforts
into a garden of solitude....	 —Henry J. Nouwen

 It is good to be solitary, for solitude is difficult; that something is
difficult must be a reason the more for us to do it....	— Rainer M.
Rilke

 9  ♦?	 Solitude

 Even in paradise, it is good to be alone....	— Jewish proverb

 A wise man is never less alone than when he is alone....	— Jonathan
Swift

 Against the love of pleasure, effective beyond all else is solitude.
For he who puts out of sight the things that are worldly loses the
desire for them....

 —Moses H. Luzzatto

 Settle yourself in solitude, and you will come upon God in yourself....

 —Teresa of Avila

 A  certain degree of solitude seems necessary to the full growth and
spread of the highest mind....

 —Friedrich von Novalis

 All humans are frightened of their own solitude. But only in solitude
can we learn to know ourselves, learn to handle our own eternal
aloneness....

 —Han Suyin

 I was never less alone than when by myself....	— Edward Gibbon

 One of the greatest necessities in America is to discover creative
solitude....

 —Carl Sandburg

 Only in solitude do we raise our hearts to the Heart of the
Universe....

 —Miguel de Yunamunojugo

 Many teachers praise love as the highest of virtues; I, however, place
solitude higher than love....Motionless detachment makes a man
superlatively Godlike....	— Meister Eckhart

 It is well to be alone. It fertilizes the creative impulse....	—
MaxNordau

 At bottom, we live spiritually alone....

 —Heinrich Heine

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Solitude

 440

 -  * Solitude

 Without solitude there can be no real people....The measure of your
solitude is the measure of your capacity for communion....	— JohnEudes

 Rest is more perfect than movement, and for the sake of rest the
individual things are moved....	— Marsilio Ficino

 Solitude, though it may be silent as light, is like light, the
mightiest of agencies; for solitude is essential to man. All men come
into this world alone; all leave it alone....  —Thomas De Quincey

 Blessed are the solitary....for you shall find the Kingdom; because you
came from it, and you shall go there again....

 —Gospel of Thomas

 A religious man is a man who is Alone— not lonely, you understand,
but Alone —with no theories or dogmas, no opinion, no background; he
is alone and enjoying it....	— J. Krishnamurti

 The chief support for purity of the heart is love of solitude....	—
Bahya

 The happiest of all lives is a busy solitude....	— Voltaire

 Men fear silence as they fear solitude, because both give them a
glimpse of the terror of life’s nothingness....

 -—Andre Maurois

 We must reserve a little back-shop, all our own, entirely free, wherein
to establish our true liberty and principle retreat and solitude....

 —Michel Montaigne

 Solitude is the nurse of enthusiasm, and enthusiasm is the parent of
genius....	— Isaac D’Israeli

 There is no true solitude except interior solitude....	— Thomas
Merton

 In solitude, where we are LEAST alone...	— George Byron

 Nowhere can you retire with more quietness or more freedom than within
your own spirit....Constantly give yourself to this retreat, and renew
yourself....	— Marcus Aurelius

 It takes solitude, under the stars, for us to be reminded of our
eternal origin and our far destiny....

 —Archibald Rutledge

 Great minds are like eagles, and build their nest in some lofty
solitude....A man can be himself only so long as he is alone, and if he
does not love solitude, he will not love freedom, for it is only when he
is alone that he is really free....	— Arthur Schopenhauer

 It is easy in the world to live after the world’s opinion; it is easy
in solitude to live after your own; but the great man is he who, in the
midst of a crowd, keeps with perfect sweetness the independence of
solitude....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 Little do men perceive what solitude is; and how far it extends. For a
crowd is not company, and faces are but a gallery of pictures, and talk
but a tinkling cymbal, where there is no love....Whosoever is delighted
in solitude is either a wild beast, or a god....

 —Francis Bacon

 They are never alone that are accompanied with noble thoughts....

 —Philip Sidney

 Solitude is to the mind what fasting is to the body, fatal if it is too
prolonged, and yet necessary....

 —Luc de Clapiers Vauvenargues

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Solitude 	♦?	 A

 Solitude makes us tougher toward ourselves and tenderer toward others
and in both ways improves our character....

 —Friedrich W. Nietzsche

 Should you band together the legs of two birds with a short rope an
interesting phenomenon will take place. Each bird will hamper the other
during their attempts to fly. Both birds will remain grounded. The same
analogy can be applied to spiritual matters. Self-realization is a
solitary affair in which each pilgrim must travel unhindered, alone....	
—Shantidasa

 Solitude is not to be found in forests only. It can be had even in
towns and the thick of worldly occupation....

 —Ramana Maharshi

 I never found the companion that was so companionable as solitude. I am
for the most part more lonely when I go abroad among men than when I
stay in my chambers....  —Henry D. Thoreau

 Be able to be alone. Lose not the advantage of solitude, and the
society of thyself, nor be only content, but delight to be alone and
single with Omnipresence....	 —Thomas Browne

 You cannot build a character in a solitude; you need a formed character
to stand a solitude....	 —Austin O’Malley

 When you have closed your doors, and darkened your room, remember never
to say that you are alone, for you are not alone; God is within, and
your genius is within....	 —Epictetus

 Solitude is a discipline....essential for those who would acquaint
themselves with God and be at peace....

 — E. Herman

 Eagles fly alone; sheep herd together....

 —Sufi saying

 1  ♦?	 Speech

 It would do the world good if every man in it would compel himself
occasionally to be absolutely alone. Most of the world’s progress has
come out of such loneliness....	 —Bruce Barton

 In this business of life, I have a silent partner, God, who gives me
complete freedom to run this partnership and make it successful....Most
importantly, I must be still....and affirm what I need, and then listen
from within for an answer....	 —Ronnie Fisher

 The best thinking has been done in solitude. The worst has been done in
turmoil....	 —Thomas A. Edison

 Spirituality is not to be learned by flight from the world, by running
away from things, or by turning solitary and going apart from the world.
Rather, we learn an inner solitude wherever or with whomsoever we may
be. We must learn to penetrate things and find God there....	 —Meister
Eckhart

 &

  Speech 

 L

 isten to all the conversations of ourworld between nations as well as

 those between couples. They are, forthe most part, dialogue of the
deaf....

 —Paul Toumier

 They that govern the most make the least noise....	 —John Selden

 True eloquence consists in saying all that need be said and no more....

 —Francois La Rochefoucauld

 Once a word has been allowed to escape, it cannot be recalled....

 —Horace

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890       shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   
   shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Speech

 442

 - -

 Speech

 In speech, we can only speak fragments of the truth, thus all speech
misses the point; at best it is the partial expression of the inner
feeling, but it can never grasp the totality of our heart—thus speech
mostly divides, and rarely unites....	— A Spiritual Warrior

 If you propose to speak, always ask yourself—Is it true, is it
necessary, is it kind?...	— Gautama Buddha

 If you stop talking and stop thinking, there will be nothing you do not
understand....	— Paul Twitchell

 Those who speak with discretion are respected by mankind, as the sun,
emerging from the shadows, by its rays creates great warmth....

 —Tibetan saying

 To talk without thinking is to shoot without aiming....	— English
proverb

 When the mouth stumbles, it is worse than the foot.... — West African
proverb

 The instant you speak about a thing, you miss the mark.... — Zen
saying

 A talkative person runs himself into great inconveniences by babbling
out his and other’s secrets....

 —John Ray

 Speech is a mirror of the soul; as a man speaks, so he is....	—
Publilius Syrus

 The mouth speaks from the heart. It is impossible for man to conceal
himself. In every act, word, or gesture, he stands revealed as he is,
and not as he would have himself appear to be....

 —Ernest Holmes

 Talk doesn’t cook rice....

 —Chinese proverb

 <•*?

 One should speak what is true; one should speak what is sweet; one
should not speak what is true if it is not sweet or what is sweet if it
is false; this is the ancient law....	— Manu

 An enormous amount of energy is wasted by excessive talking. The energy
that is spent talking should be carefully and vigilantly conserved and
utilized for spiritual practices and in divine contemplation. The organ
of speech distracts the mind considerably. A talkative man cannot dream
of having peace even for a short time....

 —Sivananda

 We  cannot talk about atoms in ordinary language....	— Werner
Heisenberg

 Speak to everyone in accordance with his level of understanding....

 —Sufi saying

 One of the things that keep us at a distance from perfection is,
without doubt our tongue....	— Francis de Sales

 Not that which goeth in at the mouth defileth a man, but that which
cometh out of the mouth, this defileth him....

 —Jesus

 Nature has given us two ears, two eyes, and but one tongue, to the end
that we should hear and see more than we speak....	— Epictetus

 The less you speak the less you err....

 —Solomon Ibn Gabirol

 The best way to cut your problems in half is to learn how to keep your
mouth closed....	— Anonymous

 Speak soft and sweet; sympathize with suffering and loss and ignorance;
try your best to apply the salve of smoothing words and timely
succor....

 —Sathya Sai Baba

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Speech

 The less men think, the more they talk....	— Charles Montesquieu

 He who tells the truth says almost nothing....	— Porchia

 Do you wish men to speak well of you? Then never speak well of
yourself....

 —Blaise Pascal

 The man who findeth God loseth his speech....	— Mohammed

 If you can’t say good and encouraging things, say nothing. Nothing is
often a good thing to say, and always a clever thing to say....	— Will
Durant

 Speech is of time; silence of eternity....

 —Thomas Carlyle

 Man has great power of speech, but the greater part thereof is empty
and deceitful....	 —Leonardo	da	Vinci

 Keep your remarks brief, otherwise the complete plan of your thoughts
will seldom be grasped. Before you reach the conclusion, the listener
will have forgotten the beginning and the middle....

 —Horace

 We are ruined by foolish speech and saved by silence.... — Hindu
saying

 There is nothing in the world better for the perfection of the soul
than the curbing of speech....	— Shmuel Agnon

 He who knows Tao does not care to speak of it; and he who is ever
willing to speak of it does not know it....

 — Lao-tzu

 The more you speak of yourself, the more you are likely to lie....

 —Johann G. Zimmerman

 It is easier to talk than to hold one’s tongue....	— Greek proverb

  443 *	Speech 

 ‘XfX 1  	

 Speech is a God-given form peculiar toman, and must not be employed
forthat which is degrading....

 —Maimonides

 Discretion in speech is more than elo-quence....	— Francis Bacon

 The sage does not talk, the talentedones talk, and the stupid ones
argue....

 —Kung Tingan

 Happiness is speechlessness....

 —George W. Curtis

 A  man’s defeat lies in his tongue....

 —Persian proverb

 When speech is controlled, the eyesspeak; the glance says what words
cannever say....	— Hazrat Inayat Khan

 Be in no hurry to speak....

 —Old Testament

 Talkative people listen to no one, forthey are ever speaking. And the
firstevil surrounding those who do notknow the meaning of silence is
thatthey hear nothing....	— Epictetus

 A  dog is not considered a good dogbecause he is a good barker. A man
isnot considered a good man because heis a good talker....	— Chuang
Tse

 Speech is the small change of silence....

 —George Meredith

 They always talk who never think....

 —Matthew Prior

 He who speaks becomes silent beforethe Divine Essence....	— Jili

 An egotist will always speak of himself,either in praise or censure,
but a mod-est man ever shuns making himself thesubject of his
conversation....

 —Jean La Bruyere

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Speech	*	444	*	Spirituality

  	

 Speech is a faculty given to man to conceal his thoughts....

 —Alexander Talleyrand

 Do not trust all who talk smoothly. Listen much and speak little....

 —Robert Benson

 Talk that does not end in any kind of action is better suppressed
altogether....

 —Thomas Carlyle

 Let a fool hold his tongue and he will pass for a sage. I have often
regretted my speech, never my silence....

 —Publilius Syrus

 He who says he knows—shun; he who thinks he knows—listen; he who
says he doesn’t know—follow....

 —Chinese proverb

 Undisciplined talk means an undisciplined mind....	— Art Lbxkletter

 We say little when we talk about ourselves....	— Anonymous

 &

  Spirituality 

 I

 n the spiritual life, all paths leadto the same place....

 —Satchidananda

 Once spirit was God, then it became man....	— Friedrich W. Nietzsche

 Our spiritual being is here to experience the process of life, not hold
it stagnant, or try to control and possess it....Our spirit cannot be
free if it is desirous of controlling life, or if it is attached to the
results of its actions....

 —A Spiritual Warrior

 No one who hasn’t experienced for himself at least something of the
nature and joys of the spiritual life can have any valid opinion on the
subject....

 —Krishnaprem

 We will never be spiritual until we give up trying, and become aware
that we already are spiritual....

 —Walter Starcke

 The man who has no inner life is a slave of his surroundings, as the
barometer is the obedient servant of the air....

 —Henri F. Amiel

 The material world, which has been taken for a world of blind
mechanism, is in reality a Spiritual world seen very partially and
imperfectly. The only real world is the Spiritual world....

 — J. B. S. Haldane

 Are we not all divine? Are we not all made for a higher life?...

 —Mother Teresa

 In order to make spiritual progress you must be patient like a tree and
humble like a blade of grass....

 —Lakshmana

 Spirituality does not “separate” you from the world; it allows you
to connect with All There Is, and that includes your life here....	—
Iris Belhayes

 The spiritual life is the way of walking with God instead of walking
alone....

 —Elinor MacDonald

 In our spiritual development we are often required to pull up roots
many times and to close many chapters in our lives until we are no
longer attached to any material thing and we can love all people without
any attachment to them....

 —Peace Pilgrim

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Spirituality	*

 Life in the world and life in the spirit are not incompatible....

 —The Upanishads

 The universe is a more spiritual entity than we thought. The real fact
is that we are in the midst of a spiritual world which dominates the
material....

 —Bhagavan Das

 Whatever can’t be done in the physical can be done in the spiritual.
And in direct proportion as man recognizes himself as spirit, and lives
accordingly, is he able to transcend in power the man who recognizes
himself merely as material....	-— Ralph  W.  Trine

 The eternity of the spirit does not begin after death....but is, like
God, always present....	— Moses Hess

 Whatever draws the mind outward is unspiritual and whatever draws the
mind inward is spiritual....

 —Ramana Maharshi

 We do not grasp that we are invisible....We do not understand that
life, before all definitions of it, is a drama of the visible and
invisible....

 —Maurice Nicoll

 We have been too content with allocating the high places of
spirituality to the few names of a far-off past, and with assigning the
muddy depths to humanity in general. We forget our own divine nature....
— Paul Brunton

 We are not here for the sake of possession, or of power, or of
happiness, but we are here to transfigure the divine out of human
spirit....

 —Walter Rathenau

 While the body perishes the Spirit is immortal. We are here to realize
we are spirit....	— Papa Ramdas

 445 *	Spirituality

 Spirituality is like a bird: if you hold on to it tightly, it chokes,
and if you hold it loosely, it escapes....	— Israel Lipkin

 Spiritual achievement costs much, though never as much as it is
worth....

 —Evelyn Underhill

 There is no reality except the one contained within us....	— Hermann
Hesse

 Spirit is the real and eternal; matter is the unreal and temporal....

 —Mary Baker Eddy

 By having reverence for life, we enter into a spiritual relation with
the world....By practicing reverence for life we become good, deep and
alive....

 —Albert Schweitzer

 Zen does not confuse spirituality with thinking about God while one is
peeling potatoes. Zen spirituality is just to peel the potatoes....	—
Alan  Watts

 There are no plains in the spiritual life; we are either going uphill
or coming down....	— Fulton J. Sheen

 A soul, because of its heavenly origin, will no more be satisfied with
worldly luxuries than a princess can be with a peasant for a husband,
though he bring her everything on earth....

 —Isaac Hanina

 The spiritual life does not demand that we give up everything. We give
up nothing, but we fill everything with the richness of feeling....

 —Paramananda

 Only spiritual values can bring light and joy....	— Alexis Carrel

 Facts as facts do not always create a spirit of reality, because
reality is a spirit....	—G.  K. Chesterton

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065    Spirituality 

 The spiritual life is constituted in a very few words and a very great
inclination to God....	— Mother Marguerite

 The soul is a stranger in this world....

 —Bahya

 If there is one thing fundamental to the life of the spirit it is the
absence of force....	— Harold Laski

 The majority of men live without being thoroughly conscious that they
are spiritual beings....	— Soren Kierkegaard

 He who believes himself to be far advanced in the spiritual life has
not made a good beginning....

 —Jean P. Camus

 We are not human beings having a spiritual experience. We are spiritual
beings having a human experience....

 —Teilhard de Chardin

 Spiritual life and secure life do not go together; to save oneself one
must struggle and take risks....

 —Ignazio Silone

 Don’t make the excuse that man is only human. With all the force of
the truth that is in us, we say, we know, that man is divine....	—
White Eagle

 To fully understand the meaning of spirit, we must accept one direct
principle, and that is—life is indestructible. It cannot be destroyed.
It can change form and its rate of living consciousness; it can be
transmuted, and its frequency changed to higher and lower levels, but it
cannot be destroyed....

 —Ronald Beesley

 The spirit of man is inseparable from the Infinite, and can be
satisfied with nothing less than the Infinite....

 —James Allen

 446 *	Spirituality

 If you wish to progress spiritually, do not reject things you do not
understand. You build up a mental block this way. It is not healthy to
reject things you do not understand. Simply put them aside for the
present....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 Our spiritual life is a life of dependence on God....	— Mother Teresa

 Real spirituality is not up in the clouds—it is down on earth, here
and now. Deep spirituality is seeing God every day in the common things,
and showing God your appreciation by doing common tasks....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 Man is a vessel of the Spirit....Spirit is the voyager who, passing
through this land of man, bids the human soul to follow it to the
Spirit’s purely spiritual destination....	— Erich Heller

 Spiritual victory is a living force. It reaches out and touches all who
come within its magnetic field, transforming each and every thing it
contacts. When this happens to be a human mind, it is lifted above
physical bondage, conquering tragic odds and finding joy despite the
presence of pain....

 —David Seabury

 We are born into a world of nature; our second birth is into a world of
spirit....

 — Bhagavad-Gita

 Spiritually, man is a giant. Spiritually, there is nothing impossible
for man to accomplish. Godman never becomes defeated. Therefore, keep
the mental soil well-tilled and your harvest shall be great....	—
FraterAchad

 Spirituality is the process of getting our minds off ourselves and back
on God....

 —Anonymous

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Spirituality 	♦?	 4

 The great truth is that man is a spiritual being, who brings with him a
life to unfold, a power to release, a love to express, and a veritable
kingdom of heaven to outpicture. He doesn’t begin life empty, but as a
dynamic spiritual potentiality....	— Eric Butterworth

 Spirit is strong but flesh is weak, so weak sometimes it even
overpowers the strong spirit ‘which knows all truth.’....	— H. P.
Blavatsky

 The spirit is an inward flame; a lamp the world blows upon but never
puts out....	— Margot Asquith

 Spirit is the life of God within us....

 —Teresa of Avila

 The first sign of spirituality is cheerfulness....	— Anonymous

 We make for ourselves, in truth, our own spiritual world.... — Henry
F. Amiel

 The grand secret of humanity is its inability to perceive its own
spiritual character. Mankind is nothing less than miniature gods in the
unfolding. When the ancient masters bid their students “To know
thyself,” they were merely guiding them to this sacred knowledge....
— Shantidasa

 Four thousand volumes of metaphysics will not teach us what the spirit
is....

 —Voltaire

 Just as a candle cannot burn without fire, men cannot live without a
spiritual life....	— Gautama Buddha

 If the windows of your spirit are dirty and streaked, covered with
matter foreign to them, then the world as you look out of them will be
dirty and streaked and out of order....Go wash your windows....	—
Ralph W. Trine

 7 *	Success

 You are going to develop a new kind of love, not physical but
spiritual. That is not true love. Physical love is attachment. Spiritual
love is born of oneness with the spirit....Therefore, rise up and
declare that you are the immortal Spirit....	— Papa Ramdas

 Fearlessness is the first requisite of the spiritual life....	—
Mohandas Gandhi

 The physical body is a temple. Take care of it. The mind is energy.
Regulate it. The spirit is the projection. Represent it....	— Yogi
Bhajan

 The divine essence itself is love and wisdom....	— Emanuel Swedenborg

 No man who has lived through a temporary spiritual experience is ever
likely to forget it. His days will be haunted until he sets out to seek
ways and means of repeating it....

 —Paul Brunton

 Spiritual life cannot force out of anyone more than the person wishes
to put into it....	— Gayatri Devi

 Your spirit is everything; your body is a garment that rots, and
nothing more....

 —Allan Kardec

  Success 

 P

 ersonal success, business success,built upon materialism alone, are

 empty shells concealing....saddenedlives....	— George R. White

 Success can make you go one of two ways. It can make you a prima donna,
or it can smooth the edges, take away the insecurities, let the nice
things come out....	— Barbara Walters

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Success	*	448	*	Success

   *****   	

 If you would have a successful life, less and less try to make things
happen and more and more just let things happen....	 —Ormond McGill

 Some of the world’s greatest feats were accomplished by people not
smart enough to know they were impossible....	 —Doug	Larson

 Do your job naturally because you like it and success will take care of
itself....

 —Norman V. Peale

 Every worthwhile accomplishment, big or little, has its stages of
drudgery and triumph; a beginning, a struggle, and a victory....	
—Anonymous

 Success is how high you bounce when you hit bottom....	 —George
Patton

 He has achieved success who has lived well, laughed often and loved
much; who has enjoyed the trust of pure women, the respect of
intelligent men and the love of little children; who has filled his
niche and accomplished his task; who has left the world better than he
found it....	 —Bessie A. Stanley

 If people are highly successful in their profession they lose their
senses. Sight goes. They have no time to look at pictures. Sound goes.
They have no time to listen to music. Speech goes. They have no time for
conversation. They lose their sense of proportion....

 —Virginia Woolf

 Success is more dangerous than failure. The ripples break over a wider
coastline....	 —Graham Greene

 The logic of worldly success rests on fallacy: the strange error that
our perfection depends on the thoughts and opinions and applause of
other men....

 —Thomas Merton

 God doesn’t require us to succeed, he only requires that you try....

 —Mother Teresa

 No illusion is more cruel than the illusion that great success and huge
money buy you immunity from the common ills of mankind....	 —Larry
McMurtry

 Success is....a series of glorious defeats....	 —Mohandas Gandhi

 Success doesn’t always bring the anticipated sense of fulfillment.
For some, success evokes a sense of disillusionment....	 —Melvyn
Kinder

 Life is a mixture of successes and failures. May you be encouraged by
your successes and strengthened by your failures. As long as you never
lose faith in God, you will be victorious over any situation you
face....  —Peace Pilgrim

 The secret of the truly successful....is that they learned very well
early in life how not to be busy. They saw through the adage....that
anything worth doing is worth doing well. The truth is, many things are
worth doing only in the most slovenly, halfhearted fashion possible, and
many things are not worth doing at all....	 —Barbara Ehrenreich

 If you hit every time, the target is too near or too big....	 —Tom
Hirshfield

 The real demon is success—the anxieties engendered by this quest are
relentless, degrading, corroding. What is worse, there is no end to the
escalation of desire....	 —Marya Mannes

 Success makes life easier. It doesn’t make living easier....

 —Bruce Springsteen

 Success cannot mean the accumulation of inert matter....	 —Martin
Gray

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Success 	♦?	 4

 Success makes men rigid and they tend to exalt stability over all the
other virtues....	— Walter Lippmann

 Success is going from one failure to the next without a loss of
enthusiasm....

 —Winston Churchill

 My formula for success? It is very simple. I am merely a man who knows
how to enlist in his service better men than himself....	— Andrew
Carnegie

 This is the secret of success—an unfaltering faith, and a wisely
directed purpose....	— James Allen

 People seldom see the halting and painful steps by which the most
insignificant success is achieved....

 —Annie Sullivan

 Never talk about failure. There is no such thing. Even for those who
are in the grave-for they shall have another chance....If you have gone
down to failure’s door, you may accend to success by retracing your
steps....

 —James B. Schafer

 People are often intoxicated by success; they put their trust in their
destiny, and pay in the end for their former successes by severe
reverses, which greater prudence would have enabled them to avoid....
-— Allan Kardec

 Success is not to be gained by a blind and slavish following of
anyone’s rules or advice, our own any more than any other person’s.
There is no royal road to success-no patent process by which the
unsuccessful are to be magically transformed....Rules and advice may
greatly assist-and they undoubtedly do this-but the real work must be
accomplished by the individual. He must carve out his own destiny....

 —William W. Atkinson

 9  ♦?	 Success

 Success can corrupt; usefulness can only exalt....	— Dimitri
Mitropoulos

 Success seems to be largely a matter of hanging on after others have
let go....

 —William Feather

 Wealth, notoriety, place and power are no measure of success
whatever....

 —William Danforth

 Success is to be measured not so much by the position that one has
reached in life as by the obstacles which he has overcome while trying
to succeed....

 —Booker T. Washington

 You must not expect to reap success from sowing the seed of failure.
Nor should you look for a lot when you have given only a little....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 A lot of successful people are risk-tak- ers. Unless you are willing to
do that, to have a go, to fail miserably, and have another go, success
won’t happen....

 —Phillip Adams

 Many people dream of success. To me, success can only be achieved
through repeated failure and introspection. In fact, success represents
the one percent of your work which results only from the ninety-nine
percent that is called failure....	— Soichiro Honda

 The truth is that all of us attain the greatest success and happiness
possible in this life whenever we use our native capacities to their
greatest extent....

 —Smiley Blanton

 Always bear in mind that your own resolution to success is more
important than any other one thing....

 —Abraham Lincoln

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Success

 450

 Success

 Your greatest triumphs are not in winning, but in rising again after
every fall....	— Anonymous

 Success in life has been achieved when all that one wants is finely
balanced by all that one needs....	— Sufi saying

 Put your heart, mind, intellect and soul even into your smallest acts.
This is the secret of success....	— Sivananda

 Most people are quitters. This is wonderful news for those of us who
decide to be successful. It means that if we stick to what we are doing,
we will, in a very short time, be ahead of the multitudes. ...	— An
drew Matthews

 Whether you think you will succeed or not, you are right....	— Henry
Ford

 Success is not a harbor but a voyage with its own perils to the spirit.
The game of life is to come up a winner, to be a success, or to achieve
what we set out to do. Yet there is always the danger of failing as a
human being....

 —Richard M. Nixon

 Successful people are not gifted; they just work hard—then succeed on
purpose....	—G.  K. Neilson

 Success is a series of right thoughts put into action.... — Fred Van
Amburgh

 To laugh often and much; to win the respect of intelligent people and
the affection of children; to earn the appreciation of honest critics
and endure the betrayal of false friends; to appreciate beauty; to find
the best in others; to leave the world a bit better....to know even one
life has breathed easier because you lived. This is to be success

 ful....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 Try not to become a man of success. Rather become a man of value....

 —Albert Einstein

 The difference between a successful man and an unsuccessful one is
this: the former keeps going when he is tempted to give up in spite of
the temptation to become depressed and discouraged, while the latter
gives up, slackens his efforts because he gives way to depression and
discouragement....	— Henry T. Hamblin

 Success has made failures of many men....	-— Cindy Adams

 The secret of all success is commitment. No one has ever received,
gained, or accomplished anything in life without first being deeply
committed to it....

 —Alan Cohen

 Success is to rise from the illusion of pursuit to the disillusion of
possession....	— Elbert Hubbard

 The secret of success in life is known only to those who have
succeeded....

 —John C. Collins

 The most important single ingredient in the formula of success is the
knack of getting along with people....

 —Theodore Roosevelt

 A  wise man will make more opportunities than he finds.... — Francis
Bacon

 The secret of success lies in living for the sake of others.... —
Papa Ramdas

 The hopeful man sees success where others see failure, sunshine where
others see shadows and storm....

 —Orison S. Marden

 The secret of success is constancy of purpose....	— Benjamin Disraeli

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Success 	♦?	 4

 If you think you can do something, you have a much better chance for
success than if you wish you could....

 —-Tom Kubistant

 Why should we be in such desperate haste to succeed, and in such
desperate enterprises? If a man does not keep pace with his companions,
perhaps it is because he hears a different drummer....	— Henry D.
Thoreau

 The surest way to miss success is to miss the opportunity....

 —Philarete Charles

 The greedy search for money or success will almost always lead men into
unhappiness. Why? Because that kind of life makes them depend upon
things outside themselves....	— Andre Maurois

 One magic formula for successful and enthusiastic living is stated in
six powerful words: “Find a need and fill it!” Every enterprise that
has achieved success has been predicated on that formula....	 —Norman
V. Peale

 The great secret of success is to go through life as a man who never
gets used up....	— Albert Schweitzer

 Never stop being creative. The more you practice, the more creative you
become. Creativity spells success....

 —Alden James

 He that would make sure of success should keep his passion cool, and
his expectations low....	— Jeremy Collier

 Success is full of promise till men get it; and then it is last
year’s nest from which the birds have flown....

 —Henry W. Beecher

 Along with success comes a reputation for wisdom....	— Euripides

 1  ♦?	 Success

 I measure success by how well I sleep at night. If I am at peace with
my God and myself, I fall asleep easily. If sleep comes hard, then I
know the day has been a perfect failure....	— Rod McKuen

 The great secret of the highly successful life is....to infuse the
mental and physical with the spiritual; in other words, to spiritualize
all, and so to raise all to the highest possibilities and powers....	—
Ralph W. Trine

 There are three primary principles essential to the success of any
venture. They are simple, but important: 1. Determine your objectives.
2. Analyze the obstacles in your way. 3. Learn how to overcome your
obstacles....

 —Dick Carlson

 There are no secrets to success. It’s the result of preparation, hard
work, learning from failure....	— Colin L. Powell

 The talent of success is nothing more than doing what you can do well,
without a thought of fame....

 —Henry W. Longfellow

 Personal success is never static. It usually comes in small steps
leading to other small steps that lead to broader achievement....
—Wiess  Roberts

 Progress in the spiritual path as well as success in the world, is
impossible if you do not cultivate this cardinal virtue of keeping your
word....	— Sivananda

 If we believe in the necessity of trying to win over others, we will
also believe in the need for wearisome scheming....

 —Vernon Howard

 The difference between failure and success is doing a thing nearly
right and doing it exactly right....

 —Edward Simmons

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Success	*	452 	♦?	 Success

 	 -tp. 	

 What people call an overnight success is generally the result of years
of intensive preparation....	— Anonymous

 The key to success is to feel your “work” is “play.”...	—
Michael Korda

 The trouble with most of us is that we envy the success of others. We
oftentimes fail to get our share of success because we spend so much
time trying to get the other fellow’s share....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 The common idea that success spoils people by making them vain,
egotistic, and self-complacent is erroneous; on the contrary it makes
them, for the most part humble, tolerant, and kind. Failure makes people
bitter and cruel....

 —Somerset Maugham

 Self-trust is the first secret of success....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 The surest way not to fail is to determine to succeed.... — Richard
Sheridan

 Success is knowing that because of you, the world is a little
better....

 —Michael Sneyd

 I believe the true road to preeminent success in any line is to make
yourself master of that line....

 —Andrew Carnegie

 Success truly is the result of good judgement. Good judgement is the
result of experience, and experience is often the result of bad
judgement....

 —Anthony Robbins

 Great successes never come without risks....	— Flavius Josephus

 Success comes from finding meaning in life—in spite of loss....

 —Barbara Hansen

 Experience shows that success is due less to ability than to zeal. The
winner is he who gives himself to his work, body and soul....	—
Charles Buxton

 Success is not a matter of position or possession. It is a frame of
mind. It is the satisfying feeling of a life spent in a worthwhile way,
and a feeling of service rendered....	— Stephen M. Paulson

 We can do anything we want to do if we stick with it long enough....

 —Helen Keller

 The toughest thing about success is that you’ve got to keep on being
a success....

 —Irving Berlin

 Success does not consist in never making blunders, but in never making
the same one the second time....

 —Henry W. Shaw

 The line between failure and success is so fine that we scarcely know
when we pass it: so fine that we are often on the line and don’t know
it. How many a man has thrown up his hands at a time when a little more
effort, a little more patience, would have achieved success....	—
Elbert Hubbard

 Hope is the great power that can move you to success. Why? Because when
a man expects to win he does not hold anything back, but he gives his
project all that he’s got....	— Norman V. Peale

 When a man has put a limit on what he will do, he has put a limit on
what he can do....	— Charles M. Schwab

 Winning is making a total commitment to something you believe
in—regardless of the outcome....	— Joseph Patemo

 A  man may be outwardly successful all his life long, and die hollow
and worthless....	— Henry W. Beecher

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Suffering

 *

 Suffering

 S

 orrow cannot be conquered by bit-terness and resentment. You must

 accept your loss, turn from it as from aclosed door....	— James G.
Gilhey

 Sorrow makes a man think of God.... Every man from king to peasant has
a certain amount of sorrow. Even in cases where it seems absent, it is
only a time factor that makes you think so— sooner or later it
comes....One man may not question sorrow or God at the first blow but he
is likely to do so at the fifth blow. We have taken this vehicle in
order to know our real state....

 —Ramana Maharshi

 All that is not of the Will of God is out of accord with the true
Harmony....And nothing that is not in harmony with the Divine order is
of any use to you—it does but increase and prolong your suffering....
— Henry T. Hamblin

 We are healed of suffering only by experiencing it to the full....

 —Marcel Proust

 It is because human loves are narrow and confined and mingled with
selfishness that they cause suffering. No suffering can result from that
Love which is so absolutely pure that it seeks nothing for itself....
— James Allen

 Half our sorrows come from setting exalted standards for people and
then breaking our hearts when they fail to live up to them....	— Alice
H. Rice

 The hardships of life are not sent by an unkind destiny to crush, but
to challenge....	— Sam E. Roberts

 453  ♦?	 Suffering

 p? 	

 All....suffering can be avoided byrealizing that God is the only
reality.You are the manifestation of God, aspiritual being emanating
from the oneand only source, which is God. Yourspirit is eternal—you
live, breathe andhave your being in God. You cannotbe separated from
God, for God isthe totality and the only reality—God “is,” nothing
else is....

 —A Spiritual Warrior

 Suffering in any form has as itsprimary object to impel people to turn

 towards the Path of Love	

 —Julian P. Johnson

 To become the spectator of one’s ownlife is to escape the suffering
of life....

 —Oscar Wilde

 God never punishes. Punishment isalways self-inflicted. We
bringsuffering on ourselves by our wrongactions. If we are conscious
that God isacting through us, we never do anywrong. We do wrong only
when weforget God....	— Papa Ramdas

 Sorrow is a gentle teacher, and revealsmany things that would be hard
tounderstand....	— Anna Brown Lindsay

 You suffer from yourself alone; no onecompels you....	— Gautama
Buddha

 If you come to see with clarity that theworld is only a projection of
the mind,you will transcend all suffering....

 —Subramania Bharati

 Suffering is not an evil, it is the conse-quence and nearly always the
remedyof evil....	— Eliphas Levi

 The suffering that comes to us has apurpose....It is trying to teach
ussomething. We should look for itslesson....	— Peace Pilgrim

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Suffering

 454

 Suffering

 Life is truly known only to those whosuffer, lose, endure adversity and
stum-ble from defeat to defeat....

 —Ryszard Kapuscinski

 Suffering gives us the impetus toescape from our self-limiting
igno-rance. If God did not send these gifts ofsuffering and misery, many
peoplewould be content to live their wholelives alienated from God and
ignorantof their true nature....

 —Annamalai Swami

 Sorrow makes us all children again,destroys all differences of
intellect. Thewisest knows nothing....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 Sorrow and suffering give opportuni-ties for growth. Disappointment
opensdoors to wider fields....

 —Elizabeth Gray Vining

 Sorrow is a kind of rust of the soul,which every new idea contributes
in itspassage to scour away....

 —Samuel Johnson

 When troubles will come, they arealways temporary—nothing lasts
forev-er....	— Aryeh Kaplan

 Man suffers because of his craving topossess and keep forever things
whichare essentially impermanent....

 —Alan Watts

 There is no bitterness in life, but whatman of earth HAS BROUGHT
UPONHIMSELF....	— Frater Achad

 We humans, not God, create pain andsuffering....	— Mother Teresa

 When there is no longer a cyclone,there is no longer an eye. So the
storms,

 crises and sufferings of life are a way offinding the eye.... —
Bernadette Roberts

 dtp

 Sorrow washes the eyes with the tearsof more perfect understanding....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 When a man suffers, he ought not tosay, “That’s bad! That’s
bad!” Nothingthat God imposes upon man is bad....

 —Hasidic saying

 Suffering....we owe to it all that is goodin us, all that gives value
to life; we oweto it pity, we owe to it courage, we oweto it all the
virtues.... — Anatole France

 To live is to suffer; that we suffer is, atleast in large part, our own
fault; thereis a way to eliminate suffering; the wayis open to all; the
way to eliminate suf-fering is to eliminate attachment....

 —William Gerber

 If you know the purpose of suffering—to burn up your ego—you’ll
even rejoicein it. Suffering is a way of purification.You heat your mind
and body to trans-form it, burning out the undesirableimpurities. Just
as gold ore is repeated-ly heated and cooled to raise its purity,all
individuals are purified by the heatof suffering. So accept suffering as
itcomes....	— Satchidananda

 God is in all humans, but all humansare not in God; that is the reason
theysuffer....	— Ramakrishna

 Suffering turns the mind towards God.Suffering infuses mercy in the
heartand softens it. Suffering strengthens.Suffering produces
dispassion....There-fore, suffering is a blessing in disguise.It is the
best thing in this world....

 —Sivananda

 Trouble and suffering are oftenextremely useful, because many
peoplewill not bother to learn the Truth untildriven to do so by sorrow
and failure....

 —Emmet Fox

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Suffering 	♦?	 455	*	Suffering

   — 	

 Suffering has a redeeming quality. Pain and repetition are fixative
agents....

 -—Irina Tweedie

 When someone beats a rug with a stick, he is not beating the rug—his
aim is to get rid of the dust from the veil of I-ness and that dust will
not leave all at once. With every cruelty and every blow, it departs
little by little, from the heart’s face, sometimes in sleep and
sometimes in wakefulness....	— Rinni

 We are never ripe till we have been made so by suffering....

 -—Henry W. Beecher

 Man cannot remake himself without suffering. For he is both the marble
and the sculptor....	— Alexis Carrel

 Wisdom comes alone through suffering....	— Aeschylus

 If you see suffering all around you, it is just a reflection of your
own inner suffering. If you want to alleviate suffering, go to the root
cause which is the suffering inside yourself....

 —Annamalai Swami

 If you are out of harmony through ignorance, you suffer somewhat; but
if you know better and are still out of harmony, then you will suffer a
great deal. Suffering pushes you toward obedience to God’s will....
— Peace Pilgrim

 Suffering is caused by desire; desire can be eradicated....	— Gautama
Buddha

 I do not want to die without leaving a record of my belief that
suffering can be overcome. For I do believe it. What must one do?...One
must submit. Do not resist. Take it. Be overwhelmed. Accept it fully.
Make it a part of life. Everything in life that we really accept
undergoes a change. So suffering must become Love.... — Katherine
Mansfield

 You add just as much suffering to the world when you take offense as
when you give offense.... — Anonymous

 Know how sublime a thing it is to suffer and be strong....

 —Henry W. Longfellow

 Suffering is separation and separativeness. And suffering is the
primary fact for individual life.... — Da Free John

 Sorrow is a fruit; God does not allow it to grow on a branch that is
too weak to bear it....	— Victor Hugo

 All the frictions, all the uncertainties, all the ills, the sufferings,
the fears, the forebodings, the perplexities of life come to us because
we are out of harmony with the divine order of things....So long as
there is a violation of laws, so long disease and suffering will
result....	— Ralph W. Trine

 It is difficult to make a man miserable while he feels he is worthy of
himself and claims kindred to the great God who made him....	— Abraham
Lincoln

 The path of sorrow, and that path alone, leads to the land where sorrow
is unknown; no traveler ever reached that blessed abode who found not
thorns and briers on his road....

 —William Cowper

 Spiritual suffering is a contradiction in term-symbols; spirit does not
suffer; suffering is not spiritual....

 —Sunyata

 To be born is to suffer; to grow old is to suffer; to die is to suffer;
to be tied to what is not loved is to suffer; to endure what is
distasteful is to suffer. In short, all the results of individuality, of
separate self-hood, necessarily involve pain or suffering....	—
Subhadra Bhihshu

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Suffering

 456

 - ‘tr‘ -

 Suffering

 Suffering is a cleansing fire that chars away triviality and
restlessness....

 —Louis E. Bisch

 It may serve as a comfort to us, in all our calamities and afflictions,
that he that lost anything and gets wisdom by it, is a gainer by the
loss....

 —Roger L’Estrange

 Suffering is the surest means of making us truthful to ourselves....

 —Jean Sismondi

 The soul that is without suffering does not feel the need of knowing
the ultimate cause of the universe. Sickness, grief and hardships are
all indispensable elements in the spiritual ascent....

 —Anandamayi Ma

 No man has affliction enough that is not matured and ripened by it, and
made fit for God by that affliction....

 —John Donne

 The more you move towards the goal, all sorrow will cease. Even if
there is sorrow, you will become impervious to it. It will not touch
you. There will be an inner strength created within you where even
sorrow will not have a meaning for you. You will smile even at
misfortune and suffering....

 —Chidananda

 Experience is the extract of suffering....

 —Arthur Helps

 People wail aloud that they are suffering and they are destitute, but
very few turn away from the sources of their suffering and
destitution....

 —Yoga Vasistha

 Tragedy is in the eye of the observer and not in the heart of the
sufferer....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 Every tunnel has its end....

 -—Comte de Saint Germaine

 Sorrow is to fall away from God....

 —John of Kronstadt

 Suffering is a very expensive school to attend, but most people learn
in no other way....	— Anonymous

 No substance can be rendered perfect without a long suffering. Great is
the error of those who imagine that the philosophers’ stone can be
hardened without first having been dissolved....

 —Henry Madathanas

 All neurosis is an attempt to avoid legitimate suffering....	— Carl
Jung

 We blame others for our sorrows and misfortunes, not perceiving that we
ourselves are the creators of our world....	— Hazrat Inayat Khan

 In spite of warnings, admonitions, advice, and appeals that he should
not submerge himself in the trivial and the transitory, man is still
drawn towards misery by defects in his understanding....	— Sathya Sai
Baba

 The whole human race is so miserable and above all so blind that it is
not conscious of its own miseries....

 —Comenius

 The cause of all our sufferings is in ourselves alone, not
outside....Suffering turns men toward their Creator....

 —Ramana Maharshi

 Love your suffering. Do not resist it, do not flee from it. Give
yourself to it. It is only your aversion that hurts, nothing else....
— Hermann Hesse

 Earth has no sorrow that Heaven cannot heal....	— Thomas More

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Suffering

 457

 Suffering

 You are not here to cry about the miseries of the human condition, but
to change them when you find them not to your liking through joy,
strength and vitality that is within you....	— Seth

 Only one-fourth of the sorrow in each man’s life is caused by outside
uncontrollable elements; the rest is self- imposed by failing to analyze
and act with calmness.... — George Jackson

 Suffering should lend man to self-inspection.... -— Adolph Buchler

 Affliction preaches awakening. Affliction is the villain who cruelly
says to the sufferer, “I shall recruit hope for you, all right.” But
as it always is in life, he who has to play the villain is never
appreciated....	— Soren Kierkegaard

 To repel one’s cross is to make it heavier....	— Henri F. Amiel

 Some people think that all the world should share their misfortunes,
though they do not share in the sufferings of anyone else....	—
Achille Poincelot

 Sorrow, like rain, makes roses and mud....	— Austin O’Malley

 We are like thirsty souls running away from a spring of fresh water. We
run away from that which would bring us what we are seeking. No wonder
we have miseries....Miseries come because we do not listen to the voice
within....

 —Paramananda

 The way that will relieve your woes on the physical plane will also
take you to the highest spiritual realizations. And the way is simple.
No resistance....

 -—Thaddeus Golas

 A man who suffers before it is necessary suffers more than is
necessary....

 —Seneca

 < If you are distressed by anything external, the pain is not due to
the thing itself but to your estimation of it, and this you have the
power to revoke at any moment....	— Marcus Aurelius

 To be unhappy is only half the misfortune—to be pitied is misery
complete....

 —Arthur Schnitzler

 Do not close your eyes before suffering. Find ways to be with those who
are suffering by all means, including personal contact and visits....By
such means, awaken yourself and others to the reality of suffering in
the world....

 —Gautama Buddha

 Man has ever risen nearer to God by altar-stairs of pain and sorrow....

 —Alfred Adler

 If you train yourself to rejoice in suffering, if you think that
everything is done by God for one’s own betterment and uplift, if you
welcome pain as a messenger of God to make you remember Him....then pain
will not be pain anymore. Suffering will not be suffering anymore....
— Sivananda

 Although the world is full of suffering, it is full also of the
overcoming of it....

 —Helen Keller

 All worldly pursuits have but one unavoidable and inevitable end, which
is sorrow: acquisitions end in dispersion; buildings, in destruction;
meetings, in separation; births, in death....

 —Milarepa

 As long as you identify yourself with the body-mind, you are vulnerable
to sorrow and suffering....

 —Nisargadatta

 Suffering is a journey which has an end....	— Matthew Fox

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Suffering	*	4

 If you bear the cross unwillingly, you make it a burden, and load
yourself more heavily....If you cast away one cross, you will certainly
find another, and perhaps heavier....

 —Thomas a Kempis

 God sends us nothing that is too hard or too painful to bear. He
proportions all to our strength and abilities. Our trials are suited to
our needs as the glove to the hand of the wearer....

 —Alphonsus Liguori

 Sorrow, borne with resentment and bitterness, isolates the soul not
only from God, but from her own fellows....

 —Robert Benson

 The more the diamond is cut, the brighter it sparkles; and what seems
hard dealing, there God has no end in view but to perfect His people....

 —Thomas Guthrie

 Men suffer all their life long, under the foolish superstition that
they can be cheated. But it is impossible for a man to be cheated by
anyone but himself....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 Take sorrow out of your heart, for it is the sister of divided purpose
and violent anger....	— Shepherd ofHermas

 Every time you ascribe your suffering to a source outside your mind you
not only perpetuate your hurt, but you divest yourself of the power that
God gave you to create a loving and rewarding life....	-— Alan Cohen

 Never to suffer would have been never to have been blessed....

 —Edgar A. Poe

 The diamond cannot be polished without friction, nor man perfected
without trials....	— Confucius

 8  ♦?	 Suffering

 Men are chained to that which causes suffering because they desire to
be so, because they love their chains, because they think their little
dark prison of self is sweet and beautiful, and they are afraid that if
they desert that prison they will lose all that is real and worth
having....	— James Allen

 Suffering is a device to turn one’s thoughts in the direction of
God....

 —Sufi saying

 At first one passes some time in suffering from things which seem to
come from other persons, or from circumstances outside oneself.
Gradually one finds a great part (or all) one’s troubles are in
oneself.... — Don J. Chapman

 We are enticed and led astray by our own lusts and the deceitfulness of
our own hearts, but the Spirit makes use of the misery which we
encounter, so that through our suffering, disappointment and
disillusionment we may at length turn toward God....	— Henry T.
Hamblin

 Out of suffering have emerged the strongest souls; the most massive
characters are seared with scars....

 —Edwin H. Chapin

 There is no virtue in suffering. In itself, suffering has no value or
reward. This is contrary to what confused people like to believe, for
suffering fills a place inside them which would feel empty if it were
not agitated by pain....

 —Vernon Howard

 To realize that one’s creation necessitates one’s suffering, that
suffering is one of the greatest of God’s gifts, is almost to reach a
mystical solution of the problem of evil....	— J. W. Sullivan

 Suffering bravely borne brings inner unfoldment....	— Paramananda

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Suffering	*	<

 Paradoxical as it may seem, God means to not only to make us good, but
to make us also happy, by sickness, disaster and disappointment....

 —Cyrus A. Bartol

 Three ways are open to a man who is in sorrow. He who stands on a
normal rung weeps, he who stands higher is silent, but he who stands on
the topmost rung converts his sorrow into song....	— Kotzker

 Tears are the best gift of God to suffering man....	— John Keble

 The ills from which we are suffering have had their seat in the very
foundation of human thought....

 —Teilhard de Chardin

 It has done me good to be somewhat parched by the heat and drenched by
the rain of life....

 —Henry  W. Longfellow

 God washes the eyes by tears until they behold the invisible land where
tears shall come no more....

 —Henry W. Beecher

 Without suffering, happiness cannot be understood. The ideal passes
through suffering like gold through fire. The heavenly kingdom is
attained through effort....	— Fyodor Dostoyevsky

 All troubles and suffering contain the hidden seeds of good....To shake
the mind into wakefulness, God at times sends pain and disease. They
serve to open up the eyes to the unrealities of this earthly life....
— Sivananda

 Suffering is due entirely to clinging or resisting; it is a sign of
unwillingness to move on, to flow with life....

 —Nisargadatta

 9  ♦?	 Surrender

 ?  	

 The greatest of all crosses is self. If we die in part every day, we
shall have but little to do on the last. These little daily deaths will
destroy the power of the final dying....	-— Francois Fenelon

  Surrender 

 I

 f one surrenders completely, therewill be no one left to ask ques-

 tions....Surrender can never be regard-ed as complete as long as the
devoteewants this or that from God....

 —Ramana Maharshi

 How seek the way which leadeth to ourwishes? By renouncing our wishes.
Thecrown of excellence is renunciation....

 —Hazif Divan

 Nothing relinquished is lost; everythingfinds its true balance, its
equilibrium,in God....	— Elsie Morgan

 Really, you don’t lose anything byrenouncing. Instead you become
ownerof the entire world. A homeless mancan claim every home as his own.
Apocketless man can thrust his hand intoevery pocket....	—
Satchidananda

 When water surrenders to the flow ofthe river it reaches the ocean, so
alsomust we surrender in order to reachour Source....	— Anonymous

 We must be willing to get rid of the lifewe’ve planned, so as to have
the lifethat is awaiting us....The old skin has tobe shed before the new
one is tocome....	— Joseph Campbell

 Surrender is the secret. I take in Godwith my inward breath and try to
givemyself up completely, completely, withmy outward breath....

 —Nancy Pope Mayorga

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Surrender	*	460

 He that will not surrender himself to God’s grace has to suffer
worries without end, while the devotee that cultivates the attitude of
surrender is free from cares, and therefore happy, even now....	
—Lakshmana	Sarma

 You can find God if you will only seek— by obeying divine laws, by
loving people, by relinquishing self-will, attachments, negative
thoughts and feelings. And when you find God it will be in the
stillness. You will find God within....	— Peace Pilgrim

 There was a day when I died....to George Muller, his opinions,
preferences, tastes and will—died to the world, its approval or
censure—died to the approval or blame even of my brethren and
friends—and since then I have studied only to show myself approved
unto God....

 —George Muller

 Spiritual maturity lies in the readiness to let go of everything. The
giving up is the first step. But the real giving up is in realizing that
there is nothing to give up, for nothing is your own....

 —Nisargadatta

 I finally learned that my main purpose was to have no purpose, to learn
how to give up effort....But why had I been so slow in discovering that
by relinquishing I could produce riches....

 —Joanna Field

 Everything belongs to the man who wants nothing. Having nothing, he
possesses all things in life, including life itself. Nothing will be
denied the man who denies himself. Having chosen to be utterly solitary
he now comes into possession of the most utterly social fact in the
universe, the kingdom of God....

 — E. Stanley Jones

 Surrender

 Whosoever shall seek to save his life shall lose it; and whosoever
shall lose his life shall find it....	— Jesus

 To be free, to be able to stand up and leave everything
behind—without looking back. To say Yes....

 —Dag Hammarskjold

 Only he who has become so free from self as to be equally content to be
annihilated is fit to enter into the Infinite....

 —James Allen

 God can only help you if you surrender to God....	— Saradamma

 If we surrender to God we do not have to make any choices at all....

 —Papa Ramdas

 Giving up something in the hope of getting something else in its place
is not really giving up....

 — U. G. Krishnamurti

 Who are you who go about to save them that are lost? Are you saved
yourself? Do you know that who would save his own life must lose it? Are
you one of the “lost”? Be sure, very sure, that each one of these
can teach you as much as, probably more than, you can teach them....	—
Edward Carpenter

 Renunciation means giving up one’s attachment to the things of the
world, an attachment based on the wish to possess them.... — Arthur
Deihman

 What prevents us from total surrender is also the cause of our other
troubles. It is our selfish will....

 —Piero Ferrucci

 There is a way that we can live happily in this miserable world. That
way is to give our minds to God....

 —Jnanasambandhar

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Surrender 	♦?	 4

 It is the very attempt to have power which makes us powerless. And it
is the abandonment of all attempts to have power which blends us with
cosmic power, which conquers all....

 —Vernon Howard

 Surrender and all will be well. Throw all responsibility on God. Do not
bear the burden....If one surrenders to God, there will be no cause for
anxiety. Nothing will affect you....God never forsakes one who has
surrendered....

 —Ramana Maharshi

 When surrender is complete, everything is God. Everything that happens
is then His action. In that state there is peace, harmony and an absence
of thoughts....	— Annamalai Swami

 The thing we surrender to becomes our power....	— Ernest Holmes

 Surrendering yourself to God is giving up what you can’t keep in
order to realize what you can’t lose....	— Shantidasa

 Resignation, surrender or living His Will—they are practically one
and the same—As long as the mind is dominant, there’s no surrender.
There’s no living in the Will of the Father, there’s no elimination
of the ego....

 —Charan Singh

 A completely renounced person has no want at all. And the minute he
stops wanting anything, he has his Self....

 —Satchidananda

 The Master gives himself up to whatever the moment brings.... —
Lao-tzu

 If you realize what the real problem is— losing yourself, giving
yourself to some higher end....you realize that this itself is the
ultimate trial....

 —Joseph Campbell

 1  ♦?	 Surrender

 What God requires of us, what Life demands of us, is that we surrender
ourselves and all that we have, inwardly, in love to the Whole: that we
should dedicate our all to service, in love to our fellow man....	—
Henry T. Hamblin

 Surrender does not denote any change in the external mode of life, but
a right attitude toward it....	— Papa Ramdas

 When a man is able to regard his own life as part of a whole....he will
no longer struggle in order to obtain anything for himself. This is the
surrender of personal rights....	— Mabel Collins

 In order to let go of something, first you must know what it is....

 —Nisargadatta

 When you surrender to God and agree to be guided from within-life
becomes an adventure into the unknown....

 —Anonymous

 Surrender is the most difficult thing in the world while you are doing
it; and the easiest when it is done....

 —Bhai Sahib

 Until one is committed, there is hesitancy, the chance to draw back,
always ineffectiveness. Concerning all acts of initiative (and
creation), there is one elementary truth the ignorance of which kills
countless ideas and splendid plans: That the moment one definitely
commits oneself, then providence moves too....

 —Johann W. Goethe

 Some people are so immersed in the workings of the ego that they
haven’t the faintest idea what is meant by subordinating it to another
principle. To them the ego is the beginning and the end, the sum of all
existence....

 — U. S. Anderson

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Surrender	*	4

 Renouncing the world is not enough. It is the invisible things that
must be surrendered—the will, the character, everything....	— Irina
Tweedie

 Energy arises from surrender to God. Energy comes from the heart
expanding. A small, closed heart—no energy....

 —Sathya Sai Baba

 The true meaning of....surrender is the complete wearing away of the
ego- sense, which is individuality....

 —Lakshmana Sarma

 There is a world of difference between submitting to a Divine Will from
sullenness and submitting to it knowing that God is Supreme Wisdom; and
that someday we will know all that happened, happened for the best....

 —Fulton J. Sheen

 If your mountain will not move, surrender it to God. He will either
move it or show you how to turn it into a mine or a monument.... —
Robert Schuller

 To die—for this into the world you came. Yes, to abandon more than
you ever conceived as possible: All ideals, plans—even the very best
and most unselfish—all hopes and desires....

 —Edward Carpenter

 When opportunity for self-surrender arises, seize it. You will discover
the secret in what you had hitherto tried to avoid; indeed, you will
find even more....	— Thomas a Kempis

 Man is too often afraid to surrender. He thinks he will lose something;
but one never loses when he gives himself absolutely to God....	—
Turiyananda

 We must empty ourselves to be filled with God. Even God cannot fill
what is full....	— Mother Teresa

 2 *	Surrender

 Surrender is giving oneself up to the original cause of one’s being.
Do not delude yourself by imagining this source to be some God outside
oneself. One’s source is within oneself. Give yourself up to it....
— Ramana Maharshi

 By the surrender of self all difficulties are overcome, and there is no
error in the universe but the fire of inward sacrifice will burn it up
like chaff; no problem, however great, but will disappear like a shadow
under the searching light of self-abnegation....	— James Allen

 Self-surrender is the surrender of all concern. It cannot be done, but
it happens spontaneously when you realize your true nature. Verbal
self-surrender, even accompanied by feeling, is of little value and
breaks down under stress....

 —Nisargadatta

 Surrender refreshes and regenerates. Failure to surrender strains and
wearies. Behind every genuine surrender lives a faith fulfilled; behind
every failure to surrender lies confidence betrayed....	— Piero
Ferrucci

 There is no way of making a person true unless he gives up his own
will. In fact, apart from complete surrender of the will, there is no
traffic with God....

 —Meister Eckhart

 Yes God! Yes God! Yes, yes and always yes....	— Nicolas de Cusa

 The only real surrender is that in which the poise is undisturbed by
any adverse circumstance, and the individual, amidst every kind of
hardship, is resigned with perfect calm to the will of God....	 —Meher
Baba

 If you want to be given everything, give up everything....	— Lao-tzu

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Surrrender 	♦?	 4

 The great thing is to resign all your interests and pleasures and
comfort and fame to God. He who unreservedly accepts whatever God may
give him in this world—humiliation, trouble and trial from within or
from without—has made a great step towards self-victory....	—
Francois Fenelon

 This surrender of my life to God has never meant that I was turning my
back on the world—rather that I was interesting myself in it in a
wider and deeper way....	— PaulToumier

 There is no loss in total, unreserved self-surrender. It is not at all
a bad bargain. It is a mighty gain indeed....

 —Sivanatxda

 One must realize that no physical or mental effort can take one to God.
One must give up, mentally and physically, all idea of reaching God and
one must finally throw oneself at God’s feet and let him do whatever
He wishes with you. When there is complete physical and mental
self-surrender, then God’s grace takes you to the goal....

 —Saradamma

 When our motive is right, and when our heart is pure, our eye single,
and our faith in God—that is, when we cast ourselves utterly and
completely upon the inner, sustaining Providential Power of the
Universe—then God cannot fail us, something must happen....

 —Henry T. Hamblin

 Surrender can take effect only when it is done with full knowledge as
to what real surrender means....

 —Ramana Maharshi

 Surrender does not mean inaction. Surrender is action done on the
Divine plane...	— Papa Ramdas

 Teacher

 &

  Teacher 

 T

 he teacher treads the way; onevery span of ground he leaves

 his footprints clearly cut, which all cansee and be assured that he,
their masterwent that way.... — The Aquarian Gospel

 First, teach a person to develop to the point of his limitation and
then—pfft!— break the limitation....	— Viola Spolin

 Good teaching is one-fourth preparation and three-fourths theatre....

 —Gail Godwin

 All a teacher can do is to put our feet on a path and point the way. No
teacher, living or past, can give us the actual understanding of truth.
It is wholly dependent upon the individual to make his way to truth....

 —Paul Twitchell

 I have learned silence from the talkative, tolerance from the
intolerant and kindness from the unkind. I should not be ungrateful to
those teachers....	— Kahlil Gibran

 No teaching, no theorizing, no philosophizing, no rules of conduct or
life will take the place of actual experience....	— Edward Carpenter

 Learning is a good thing, but in the end it availeth not. Experience,
not learning, leads to wisdom and the bliss of immortality...	—
William Blake

 The words of the great teachers and guides of humanity are streams of
power and light.... — Mouni Sadhu

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Teacher 	♦?	 4

 Divine knowledge is realized, not taught....	— Shirdi Sai Baba

 It is seldom that we go beyond our teachers....	— Darcy Maxwell

 He who wishes to teach us a truth should not tell it to us, but simply
suggest it with a brief gesture....

 —Jose Ortega y Gasset

 We teachers can only help the work going on, as servants wait upon a
master....	— Maria Montessori

 Teachers are of two breeds, those who teach us how to be, and those who
teach us how not to be....

 —Anonymous

 Teaching is like climbing a mountain....

 —Fawn M. Brodie

 We are all teachers; and what we teach is what we learn, and so we
teach it over and over again until we learn....

 —A Course In Miracles

 The men who have gone before us have taught us how to live and how to
die. We are the heirs of the ages....

 —Sidney Dark

 Your own self is your ultimate teacher. The outer teacher is merely a
milestone. It is your inner teacher that will walk with you to the goal,
for he is the goal....	— Nisargadatta

 Much learning will not teach understanding....	— Heraclitus

 The wise man is always a student. He is ever eager to learn. He never
poses to be a teacher....A man of little learning and little
understanding is ever eager to teach. He wants to take up the role of
preceptor. He is not eager to learn....

 —Sivananda

 4  ♦?	 Teacher

 ?  	

 The years teach much which the days

 never know....	— Ralph W. Emerson

 In all ancient teaching the first demand at the beginning of the way to
liberation was: Know thyself....

 —George I. Gurdjieff

 It is nothing short of a miracle that the modern methods of instruction
have not yet entirely strangled the holy curiosity of inquiry....	—
Albert Einstein

 A good teacher must be able to put himself in the place of those who
find learning hard....	— Eliphas Levi

 A  guru is like a fire; stand too close and you’ll get burnt; stand
too far away and you won’t get heat...	— Tibetan proverb

 You are your own best teacher....

 —Warren Bennis

 True teaching liberates the student from his teacher. He will find the
teacher within himself. This will not make him arrogant or egotistical;
rather, he will have a deep sense of humility, as we should when we face
the Great Reality....	— Ernest Holmes

 The teacher, however great, can never give his knowledge to the
pupils....although....he can kindle the light if the oil is in the
lamp....

 —Hazrat Inayat Khan

 The real purpose of teachers, books and teachings is to lead us back to
the kingdom of God within ourselves	

 —Joel Goldsmith

 You will find something more in the woods than in books. Trees and
stones will teach you that which you can never learn from masters....

 — St. Bernard

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Teacher	*	4

 If you wish to know the road up the mountain, ask the man who goes back
and forth on it....	 —Zenrin

 The teacher is really yourself. You have created a teacher to wake you
up. The teacher would not be here if you were not dreaming about the
teacher....

 —Robert Adams

 We are all teachers of one another during our earthly pilgrimage, some
greater teachers than others, but nevertheless, all teachers....

 —Anonymous

 The best teacher is always heart to heart silence....	 —Ramana
Maharshi

 A  bus driver is the best example of a guru. He is totally involved in
taking you to a destination, but he is uninvolved with you as well. His
job is to pick you up and to deliver you....

 —Yogi Bhajan

 When God is our teacher, we come to think alike....	 —Xenophon

 The teacher can show you the way. The teacher can inspire you. The
teacher can try to give you a little bit of enthusiasm and courage. But
you will have to keep your feet yourself on every rung of the spiritual
ladder. The teacher cannot do it for you....	 —Gurudev

 Our teachers come in surprising packages. They are not always loving
persons in our life. Our greatest teacher may be the person who brings
out the worst in us....	 —Shirley Briggs

 All the great spiritual teachers have denied themselves personal
luxuries, comforts and rewards, have abjured temporal power, and have
lived and taught the limitless and impersonal Truth....	 —James Allen

 5 *	Teacher

 A person seeking to escape from prison would be wise to seek the advice
of someone who has escaped from that prison; a person seeking God would
be wise to seek someone who has found God....	 —Shantidasa

 A teacher affects eternity; he can never tell where his influence
stops....

 —Henry Adams

 Give a man a bowl of rice and you feed him for the day; teach a man to
grow rice and you feed him for a lifetime....

 —Chinese proverb

 By learning you will teach; by teaching you will learn....  —Latin
aphorism

 There is no reason for us to intentionally impoverish ourselves by not
inviting the wisdom of great sages into our lives....	 —Ravi Ravindra

 I give people what they want, so eventually they’ll want what 1 have
to give....

 —Shirdi Sai Baba

 No books or gurus can awaken us. They are but signposts. If we study
signposts; we can go in the direction pointed to. We should not ignore
teachers and books; they show us the way....

 —David Manners

 Gurus and teachers only show the spiritual path, remove doubts and give
some inspiration. You are the redeemer....You have to tread the
spiritual path yourself....	 —Sivananda

 Every man I meet is my superior in some way. In that, I learn from
him....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 A  teacher is one who communicates out of personal experience to
someone who is interested in learning....

 —Vimala Thakar

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Teacher 	♦?	 4

 The best teacher is the one who suggests rather than dogmatizes, and
inspires his listener with the wish to teach himself....

 —Edward Bulwer-Lytton

 We all have a  [silent]  teacher from another plane who instructs us
and sometimes there are more than one. There are no accidents in the
Divine Plan nor does God leave us unattended....	— Peace Pilgrim

 Every person of learning is finally his own teacher....	— Thomas
Paine

 The teacher who is attempting to teach without inspiring the pupil with
desire to learn is hammering on cold iron....

 —Horace Mann

 It is said that someone who acts as an enemy toward you is your best
teacher....	— Dalai Lama

 Teachers and teachings are forms, and ultimately you must go beyond
forms....	-— RamDass

 For the true student, everything that happens in daily life is a
test....

 —Karlfried G. Durckheim

 A  real teacher has no teaching. He merely apprises you of the fact
that you are no different from himself, the Self. You are already that!
What is there to teach? You are already free! The ultimate truth is that
there is no teacher, no teaching, and no student....

 — H. W. L. Poonja

 It is the supreme art of a teacher to awaken joy in creative expression
and knowledge....	— Albert Einstein

 To teach another is the best way to learn for yourself....

 —Tryon Edwards

  6 *	Teacher 

 f 	

 Too much dependence on another person-even if it be a guru—develops
an inferiority complex, a feeling of unworthiness or of weakness....

 —Paul Brunton

 The teaching which is written on paper is not the true teaching.
Written teaching is a kind of food for the brain....

 —Shunryu Suzuki

 Teachers can only bring the food; we must eat it to be nourished....

 —Vivekananda

 The true teacher will never stand as the interpreter of truth for
another. The true teacher is the one whose endeavor is to bring the one
he teaches to a true knowledge of himself and hence his own interior
powers that he may become his own interpreter....

 —Ralph W. Trine

 Books are....the most patient of teachers....	— Charles L. Eliot

 When a teacher allows himself to develop a personality which will carry
him to success with his students and audiences, then he is running into
problems: he has lost truth....

 —Paul Twitchell

 He teaches who gives, and he learns who receives....	— Ralph W.
Emerson

 What nobler employment or more valuable to the state than that of the
man who instructs the rising generation....	— Cicero

 When the pupil is ready, the teacher will appear....	 —Zen	saying

 I hear and then 1 forget; I see and sometimes I remember; I do and then
I understand....	— Chinese proverb

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Teacher

 The fundamental requirements for meeting a genuine Sat Guru (true
teacher) are humility, love, and freedom from the bonds of creeds....

 —Julian P. Johnson

 Doctrine should be such as should make men in love with the lesson, and
not with the teacher....

 —Francis Bacon

 The Guru (teacher) is the person who discovers that you have fallen
into a wrong road that leads into further and further darkness. For he
knows the right road and he is full of love for all who strive to escape
the travails of the night, without lamps to light their steps....	—
Sathya Sai Baba

 You teach best what you most need to learn....	— Richard Bach

 The true teacher defends his pupils against his own personal
influence....

 —Amos B. Alcott

 Teaching is lighting a lamp and not filling a bucket....	— Frank
Crane

 Be with the world, but be not of it. Worldly duties are not ties. The
world is the best teacher....

 —Sivanarida

 The greatest teacher can do no more than walk the way of Truth for
himself, and point it out to you; you yourself must walk it for
yourself....

 —James Allen

 An impatient man cannot be a teacher....	— Hillel

 The best teachers of humanity are the lives of great men....

 —Orson S. Fowler

 God said: you must teach, as I taught, without a fee....	— The Talmud

 467  ♦?	 Teacher

 	

 The first teacher is the mother; then thenext teacher is the father;
then the envi-ronment; and then God....

 —Yogi Bhajan

 If the teacher doesn’t have a sense ofhumor, something vital is
probablymissing....	— James Fadiman

 Any attempt to share an experiencewould be a very weak dilution of
theoriginal experience. A peasant cannotbegin to understand the royal
life justbecause he has chanced to catch amomentary glimpse of a
king....

 —Anonymous

 We learn to do something by doing it.There is no other way....What we
canbest learn from good teachers is how toteach ourselves better....	—
John Holt

 When a teacher ceases to learn he ceas-es to teach. Such a one becomes
rigidand fixed—a signpost, perhaps, but nota teacher....	— Emmanuel

 Not the greatest master can go even onestep for his disciple; in
himself he mustexperience each stage of developingconsciousness.
Therefore, he will knownothing for which he is not ripe....

 —De Lubicz

 It is the function of God’s teachers tobring true learning to the
world. Prop-erly speaking, it is unlearning that theybring, for that is
“true learning” in theworld....	— A Course In Miracles

 Learning is not the accumulation ofknowledge. Learning is movementfrom
moment to moment....

 — J. Krishnamurti

 There is one teacher—God himself. Weare all pupils....	— Hazrat
Inayat Khan

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Teacher	*	4

 Teacher, teach thyself first. Lecturer, lecture to thyself first.
Reformers, reform thyself first. Physician, heal thyself first....	—
Sivananda

 In the school of life, everything that happens to you is a teaching,
and everyone is your teacher. Think of your experiences as coded
messages that are saying, “There is something that you have to learn
in order to grow and to expand.”...	— Douglas Bloch

 Men learn while they teach....

 —Seneca

 Earth School may be likened to a great feast in which every known food
is made available for sampling and each individual is encouraged to
select his own diet....

 —Meredith L. Young

 In teaching there should be no class distinctions....	— Confucius

 There is no teaching until the pupil is brought into the same state or
principle in which you are; a transformation takes place, he is you and
you are he....

 -—Ralph W. Emerson

 It is always safe to learn, even from our enemies....	— Charles C.
Colton

 A false teacher cannot even think of urging others toward
self-dependence, for he has never found it himself....If you want to
know how to find gold, ask a man who has found gold....

 —Vernon Howard

 The art of teaching is the art of assisting discovery....	— Mark Van
Doren

 Experience is the best of schoolmasters, only the school-fees are
heavy....

 —Thomas Carlyle

 8  ♦?	 Thoughts

 To teach is to learn twice....

 —Joseph Joubert

 The wisest mind hath something yet tolearn....	— George Santayana

 Seeing much, suffering much, andstudying much are the pillars of
learn-ing....	— Benjamin Disraeli

 If the life of a teacher does not measureup to his or her teachings,
the teacheris a charlatan....	— Anonymous

 Nature is the universal teacher. What-ever we cannot learn from the
externalappearance of Nature, we can learnfrom her spirit. Both are
one....

 —Paraceslus

 &

  Thoughts 

 hen we think thoughts...wemake thought forms....

 —Max Freedom Long

 Thoughts are our enemy. When we are free of thoughts, we are naturally
blissful. The gap between thoughts is our true state, it is the real
Self. Get rid of thoughts, be empty of them, be in a state of perpetual
thoughtlessness....

 —Ramana Maharshi

 Do you know that every moment of your life you’re creating through
thought? You create your own inner conditions; you’re helping create
the conditions around you....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 All things are thought; all life is thought activity. The multitudes of
beings are but phases of the one great thought made manifest. Lo, God is
Thought, and Thought is God....

 —The Aquarian Gospel

 Thoughts	*	469 	♦?	 Thoughts

 The most lively thought is still inferior to the dullest sensation....

 —David Hume

 If your thoughts are active, and your activities rushed, then you
cannot be fully alive and conscious in the moment. Only if your thoughts
are quiet and your heart at peace, can you be fully attentive and aware
of the unfolding moment....

 —A Spiritual Warrior

 Everyone creates through thought; some people create lack from
abundance and others create abundance from lack....	— Shan tidasa

 Nowhere in all the world is there anything solid and real. We tread on
thought, our bodies are made of thought, and the whole world is but
thought....	— Krishnaprem

 Nobody can tell you how to think, unless you permit him to do so.
Herein lies your greatest glory....and (up to now) one of your greatest
sources of trouble....	— Elinor MacDonald

 One’s own thought is one’s world. What a person thinks is what he
becomes—That is the eternal mystery. If the mind dwells within the
supreme Self, One enjoys undying happiness....

 —The Upanishads

 Of all the hard facts of science....I know of none more solid and
fundamental than the fact that if you inhibit thought (and persevere),
you come at length to a region of consciousness below or behind
thought....a realization of an altogether vaster self than that to which
we are accustomed....

 —Edward Car/)enter

 Thoughts of strength both build strength from within and attract it
from without. Thoughts of weakness actualize weakness from within and
attract it from without....

 —Ralph W. Trine

 What concerns me is not the way things are, but rather the way people
think things are....	 —Epictetus

 Creative thinking may simply mean the realization that there is no
particular virtue in doing things the way they have always been done....

 —Rudolph Flesch

 You are continuously radiating a mental energy which affects everything
and everyone around you....

 —Annamalai Swami

 Thought is a kind of opium; it can intoxicate us, while still wide
awake; it can make transparent the mountains and everything that
exists....

 —Henri F. Amiel

 Time is of no account with great thoughts. They are as fresh today as
when they first passed through their authors’ minds, ages ago....

 —Samuel Smiles

 We know what a person thinks not when he tells us what he thinks, but
by his actions....	— Isaac Bashevis Singer

 Just as we walk without thinking, we think without thinking....

 —Marvin Minsky

 Energy follows thought. You actually become what you think....

 —Lynne Namka

 As soon as you have made a thought, Everything you think vibrates
through laugh at it....	— Lao-tzu 	your body....	— Bobbie Probstein

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Thoughts	*	4

 Trying to understand the workings of the universe in terms of linear
thought and verbal concepts is a little like trying to see an enormous
mural by Michelangelo in the dark with a single dull ray of a
flashlight!...	— Ra mesh Balseka r

 People who are able to do their own thinking should not allow others to
do it for them....	— Elbert Hubbard

 All that we are is the result of what we have thought; it is founded
upon our thoughts, it is made up of our thoughts. If a man speaks or
acts with an evil thought, pain follows him, as the wheel follows the
foot of the ox that draws the carriage....If a man speaks or acts with a
pure thought, happiness follows him, like a shadow that never leaves
him....

 —Gautama Buddha

 Nothing is good or bad, but thinking makes it so....	— William
Shakespeare

 A  man is what he thinks about all day long....Great men are they who
see that the spiritual is stronger than any material force, that
thoughts rule the world.... Nothing in the universe is so solid as a
thought....	— Ralph W. Emerson

 Thoughts are there because you think....Thinking is not your nature.
Your nature is unalloyed happiness....

 —Ramana Maharshi

 A  great many people think they are thinking—when they are really
rearranging their prejudices and superstitions....	— Edward R. Murrow

 Change your thoughts and you change your world....	 —Norman V. Peale

 Every thought you have contributes to truth or to illusion; either it
extends the truth or multiplies illusions....

 —A Course In Miracles

  0 *	Thoughts 

 ?  	

 Thoughts are the fathers of deeds. You cannot achieve success or
happiness in the world unless you have thoughts that are conducive to
happiness or success....	— Robert Collier

 Figuratively, thought makes giants out of pygmies, and often turns
giants into pygmies. History is filled with accounts of how thought has
made weak men strong and strong men weak, and we see evidence of its
workings around us constantly....	— Claude Bristol

 We are all living is a vast ocean of thought. Thoughts are
forces....They have form, quality and substance....

 —Ralph W. Trine

 Every thought that crops up in the mind is in itself a test to see what
one’s reaction will be....	— Nityananda

 Each thought, each feeling and desire, which is not spiritual in nature
weighs us down like a frost on the branches of a tree in winter....

 —Omraam M. Aivanhov

 Woe unto the man or woman who suffers from mental indigestion. For it
is as the farmer who sows various varieties of seed in the same rows.
What would be the crop to come forth? So it is with man’s thinking.
Find the choice seed and plant it in deep furrows with love. Nurture
them with patience and sincerity and there can be no lack, no want, no
limitation....	— Frater Achad

 Thought sees beauty; emotion feels it....

 —Theodore Parker

 Let a prince be guarded with soldiers, attended by counselors, and
protected by a fort, yet if his thoughts disturb him, he is
miserable.... — Plutarch

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890   Thoughts

 Thought is a mirror: it shows man the ugliness and the beauty within
him....

 —Moses Ibn Ezra

 The power of thought is a mental dynamic of enormously powerful energy.
It has been responsible for the soaring of humankind to the heights of
achievement, and likewise for the sinking of man to the depths of
degradation....	— Shantidasa

 If we hold our thoughts on worldly, material things and refuse to think
of that which is higher and subtler, then our faith in the Unseen will
inevitably diminish....	— Paramananda

 Thought is invisible nature; nature, visible thought....	— Heinrich
Heine

 Make yourselves nests of pleasant thoughts. None of us yet know, for
none of us have been taught in early youth, what fairy palaces we may
build of beautiful thought—proof against all adversity....	— John
Ruskin

 Always think of what you have to do as easy, and it will become so....

 —Emile Cove

 If we only knew deeply, absolutely, that our smallest act, our smallest
thought, has such far-reaching effects; setting forces in motion;
reaching out to the galaxy; how carefully we would act and speak and
think. How precious life would become in its integral wholeness....	—
Irina Tweedie

 A neurotic thought pattern repeats

 itself with monotonous regularity	

 —Thomas Troward

 How did man get out of the Kingdom of God? How did he lose his place in
it? By his negative thinking....

 —Robert A. Russell

 471 *	Thoughts

 The effect of living within a society oftentimes confuses and
complicates our stream of thought. It makes people forget who they
really are by causing them to be obsessed with what they are not....	—
Lao-tzu

 All that is wrong, is wrong as thinking makes it such....	— Francis
Bacon

 There are no limitations in what you can do except the limitation of
your own mind as to what you cannot do. Don’t think you cannot. Think
that you can....	— Darwin P. Kingsley

 Think like a man of action, and act like a man of thought....	— Henri
Bergson

 Negative thinking will always lead to failure and nervous prostration;
but positive faith—positive thinking—will lead you towards happy,
healthy and abundant living....	— Albert E. Cliffe

 If you realized how powerful your thoughts are, you would never think a
negative thought. They can have a powerful influence for good when
they’re on the positive side, and they can and do make you physically
ill when they’re on the negative side....	— Peace Pilgrim

 Our thoughts reverberate in our bodies....	— Thomas Allen

 Every morning pull yourself up to your full height and stand tall. Then
think tall—think big, elevated thoughts. Then go out and act tall. Do
that and joy will flow to you....	— William Danforth

 Thought impregnated with love becomes invincible.... — Charles Haanel

 Man is a plant which bears thoughts, just as a rose tree bears roses
and an apple tree bears apples....

 —Antoine F. D’Olivet

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Thoughts 	♦?	 4

 Of all the known forms of energy, thought is the most subtle, the
irresistible force. It has always been operating; but, as far as the
great masses of the people are concerned, it has been operating blindly,
or, rather, they have been blind to its mighty power, except in the
cases of a few here and there....

 —Ralph W. Trine

 To stop thinking is as if one wanted to stop the wind....	— Ch inese
proverb

 When I want to think things more pleasant, I close the cupboards of my
mind revealing the more unpleasant things of life, and open the
cupboards containing the more pleasant thoughts. If I want to sleep, I
close up all the cupboards of my mind....

 —Napoleon Bonaparte

 If you don’t catch....thoughts as they rise, they sprout, become
plants and, if you still neglect them, they grow into great trees....If
you can be so indifferent to it that it doesn’t sprout or flourish,
you are well on the way to escaping from the entanglements of the
mind....

 —Annamalai Swami

 Thought is neither good or bad, but like any other force, the use of it
determines its character....

 —Ernest Holmes

 Nothing erases unpleasant thoughts more effectively than concentration
on pleasant ones....	— Hans Selye

 The thoughts you think will irradiate you as though you are a
transparent vase....	— Maurice Maeterlinck

 Let no man imagine that he has no influence. Whoever he may be, and
wherever he may be placed, the man who thinks becomes a light and a
power....	— Henry George

  2 *	Thoughts 

 ?  	

 If your thoughts center round the body, you will have worries about
pains and illnesses, real or imaginary; if they are centered on riches,
you will be worried about profit and loss, tax and exemptions,
investment and insolvency; if they roam round fame, then you are bound
to suffer from the ups and downs of scandal, calumny and jealousy....
— Sathya Sai Baba

 While we stop to think, we often miss our opportunity....	— Publilius
Syrus

 You are today where your thoughts have brought you; you will be
tomorrow where your thoughts take you....

 —Anonymous

 Misery is due to the great multitude of discordant thoughts that
prevail in the mind. If all thoughts be replaced by one single thought,
there will be no misery....	— Ramana Maharshi

 I have always thought the actions of men the best interpreters of their
thoughts....	— John Locke

 Our thought is the key which unlocks the doors of the universe....

 —Samuel M. Crothess

 By space the universe embraces me and swallows me up like an atom; by
thought I embrace the universe....

 —Blaise Pascal

 We become what we think about most of the time....	— Earl Nightingale

 Negative thoughts are the world’s most communicable disease....

 —Gene E. Clark

 We never do anything well till we cease to think about the manner of
doing it....

 —William Hazlitt

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Thoughts 	♦?	 4

 He who is in harmony with Nature hits the mark without effort and
apprehends the truth without thinking....

 —Confucius

 When thoughts arise, then do all things arise. When thoughts vanish,
then do all things vanish....	— Huang Po

 Every good thought you think is contributing its share to the ultimate
result of your life....	— Grenville Kleiser

 The way we are going to think tomorrow depends largely on what we are
thinking today....	— David L. Brown

 We are all much more influenced by the thought-forces and mental states
of those around us and of the world at large than we have even the
slightest conception of....	— Ralph W. Trine

  Time 

 T

 o realize the unimportance of timeis the gate of wisdom....

 —Bertrand Russell

 Time, whose tooth gnaws away at everything else, is powerless against
the truth....	— Thomas Huxley

 He is the best teacher who makes the best use of his time and that of
his pupils. For time is all that is given by God in which to do the work
of improvement.... — Emma H. Willard

 Time can be your joyous friend in the experience of spiritual being; or
time can be your dreaded foe that dissolves illusions, breaks your
attachments, and destroys your life....

 —A Spiritual Warrior

 3  ♦?	 Time

 Every day is a god, each day is a god, and holiness holds forth in
time....

 —Annie Dillard

 Time is not a line, but a series of now-points.... — Taisen Deshimaru

 In reality, killing time is only the name for one of the multifarious
ways by which Time kills us.... — Osbert Sitwell

 You will never ‘find’ time for anything. If you want time you must
make it....

 —Charles Buxton

 When there is a stain, and nothing will remove it—time will take it
away....

 —William Buck

 Know the true value of time! Snatch, seize, and enjoy every moment of
it. No idleness, no laziness, no procrastination. Never put off until
tomorrow what you can do today....

 —Philip Chesterfield

 Time is an illusion of this earth life....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 Everything is flowing. The Great River of Time takes everything with
it, and nothing in this world remains unchanged or stabilized....

 —MouniSadhu

 Time is what we want most, but what alas! we use worst....  —William
Penn

 We talk about saving time and killing time when actually we can’t do
either. We have no choice but to spend it at a constant and flowing
rate....

 —Michael LeBeouf

 Those who make the worst use of their time are the first to complain of
its shortness....	— Jean La Bruyere

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Time

 We never shall have any more time. We have, and we have always had, all
the time there is....	 —Arnold Bennett

 One who is afraid of time becomes a prey of time. But time itself
becomes a prey of that one who is not afraid of it....	 —Nisargadatta

 Time is what keeps the light from reaching us. There is no greater
obstacle to God than time....

 —Meister Eckhart

 Time is the chief ingredient in judgement....	 —William Feather

 Time is a sort of river of passing events, and strong is its current;
no sooner is a thing brought to sight than it is swept by and another
takes its place, and this too will be swept away....

 —Marcus Aurelius

 There is no time after time, but there is eternity above time....	
—Paul Tillich

 Time swallows up everything except character; this is the only thing it
cannot touch....	 -—Paramananda

 Time heals griefs and quarrels, for we change and are no longer the
same persons....	 —Blaise Pascal

 A hundred years of living is but a transient moment, the length of
which resembles only a spark struck with stone....	 —Chang Po-tuan

 Time is change, transformation, evolution....	 —Isaac L. Peretz

 Time makes more converts than reason....	 —Thomas Paine

 Time is a kindly god....

 —Sophocles

 474 *	Time

 How you spend your time is more important than how you spend your
money. Money mistakes can be corrected, but time is gone forever....

 -—David Norris

 If the eons that comprise the lifetime of Earth were compressed into
the span of a single year....recorded history would occupy the last 30
seconds of the last day of the year....	 —Carl Sagan

 Time is short, eternity is long....

 —John H. Newman

 Time is a circus always packing up and moving away....	 —Ben	Hecht

 When a man sits with a pretty girl for an hour, it seems like a minute.
But let him sit on a hot stove for a minute— and it’s longer than
any hour. That’s relativity....	 —Albert Einstein

 We have time enough if we will use it aright....	 —Johann W. Goethe

 Time and patience will remedy every evil....	 —Max Lilienthal

 Time is the teacher most sublime....Time was but created to destroy....

 —Moses Ibn Ezra

 Time is the greatest of all tyrants. As we go on toward age, he taxes
our health, limbs, faculties, strength and features....

 —John Foster

 Let a man fix his mind on the reality and, having done this, he will
transcend time....	 —Mahabharata

 Time is your greatest advisor. Time will tell you if you can waste your
life in illusion and fantasy thoughts, dwelling over past regrets, and
future apprehensions. Just ask time, and time will point out that there
are no survivors....

 —A Spiritual Warrior

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890    Time 

 Time is an unwholesome physician, for it deceives the patient daily
with the expectation of the future....

 —Marsilo Ficino

 Waste of time is the most extravagant and costly of all expenses....

 —Theophrastus

 Many situations can be clarified by the passing of time.... 
—Theodore I. Rubin

 The great rule of moral conduct is, next to God, to respect time....

 —John K. Lava ter

 Our time is a very shadow that passes away....

 — Apocrypha: Wisdom of Solomon

 Time is too slow for those who wait, too swift for those who fear, too
long for those who grieve, too short for those who rejoice; but for
those who love, time is eternity....	— Henry Van Dyke

 Time....moves slowly to him whose employment is to watch its flight....

 —Samuel Johnson

 Time heals what reason cannot....

 —Seneca

 The timeless knows the time, the time does not know the timeless....

 —Nisargadatta

 Time is the same for pauper and priest....	— The Talmud

  Truth 

 T

 ruth is the exact opposite of theevidence of the senses. It ever

 declares the perfection of God and allhis works....	— Henry T.
Hamblin

  Truth 

 There are no new truths, but onlytruths that have not been
recognized....

 —Mary McCarthy

 Everything that is true is beautiful. Theonly vanity under the sun is
error andfalsehood. Even pain and death arebeautiful because they are
the workwhich purifies and the transfigurationwhich delivers....	—
Eliphas Levi

 Truth is as impossible to be soiled byany outward touch, as the
sunbeam....

 —John Milton

 The only way into truth is throughone’s own annihilation;
throughdwelling a long time in a state ofextreme and total
humiliation....

 —Simone Weil

 Seek truth first and you may eventuallyfind comfort. Seek comfort at
theexpense of truth and you may be apatsy for those who are all too
willingto leave your wallet and your heartempty....	— David G. Myers

 Truth will always win in a free andopen encounter.... — Richard Rorty

 Striving is an obstacle....All the timeyou are doing spiritual
practices, theTruth is standing before you, smiling atyou....	— Papaji

 Many men boast of being in possessionof Truth who are continually
swayed bygrief, disappointment, and passion, andwho sink under the first
little trial thatcomes along....	— James Allen

 Fiction reveals truths that realityobscures....	— Jessamyn West

 The opposite of a fact is falsehood, butthe opposite of one profound
truth mayvery well be another profound truth....

 —Neils Bohr

 ♦?  475 *

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Truth	*	4

 Truth does not reveal itself in the chatter of conversation, nor can it
be coaxed to betray its secrets upon a printed page. Truth speaks only
in the deep stillness of silence....

 —Shantidasa

 Truth can never change its nature, whereas untruth is always
changing....

 —Tripura Rahasya

 The Truth is one. The rest is illusion....Truth is betrayed by the
first attempt at articulation....

 —Yoga Swami

 Truth cannot be your monopoly: it is for the good of all....	—
Vivekananda

 What does it matter how one comes by the truth so long as one pounces
upon it and lives by it....	— Henry Miller

 If you seek the plain truth, be not concerned with right and wrong. The
conflict between right and wrong is the sickness of the mind....	—
Taoist saying

 “Be true to yourself” is the highest truth....	— A Spiritual
Warrior

 There are very few human beings who receive the truth complete and
staggering by instant illumination. Most of us acquire it fragment by
fragment, on a small scale, by successive developments, cellularly, like
a laborious mosaic....	— Anais Nin

 The truth is sort of mysterious and sometimes has nothing to do with
facts....	— Oliver Sachs

 Why shouldn’t truth be stranger than fiction? Fiction, after all, has
to make sense....	—- Mark Twain

 The ritual of him who has seen the Truth is above anger and kindness,
infidelity and religion....	— Rumi

 6 *	Truth

 I believe that in the end the truth will conquer....	— John Wycliffe

 No truth remains as truth the moment it is given expression. It becomes
a concept....	— Nisargadatta

 Truth consists in being aware of WHAT IS without thinking about it,
relying on spontaneity for such action as may be necessary in the
circumstances of the present moment.... — Ramesh Balsekar

 It is because of the Divine Spirit within us that we seek truth: it is
because of the Divine Spirit without us that there is truth to
discover.... — Lily Dougall

 No truth is rigid in its form, no fact is absolute, and no situation
can be expressed in dogmatic form. Only half of life can be reasoned.
The other half must be creatively experienced....

 —David Seabury

 What is Truth? A difficult question; but I have solved it for myself by
saying that it is what the "voice within" tells you....	— Mohandas
Gandhi

 There is no need to seek Truth; only stop having views....	—
Seng-ts’an

 If I held Truth in my hand, I should let it go, for the joy of pursuing
it is greater than that of finding it....

 —William Hamilton

 If you want Truth as badly as a drowning man wants air, you will
realize it in a split-second....	— The Upanishads

 Every great advance in natural knowledge has involved the absolute
rejection of authority....	— Thomas Huxley

 Truth is too simple for us; we do not like those who unmask our
illusions....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Truth 	♦?	 477 	♦?	 Truth

 	  Men occasionally stumble over the truth, but most of them pick
themselves up and hurry off as if nothing ever happened....

 —Winston Churchill

 Truth is always the same, in spite of the difference in the language
employed by those who expound it. God does not change, the Law remains
the same, and Principle is always unaltered and unalterable....	
—Henry T. Hamblin

 Truth has never been—can never be— contained in one creed....

 —Mrs.  Humphry Ward

 In the mountains of truth, you never climb in vain....

 —Friedrich W. Nietzsche

 The way of truth is like a great road. It is not difficult to know it.
The evil is only that men will not seek it....

 —Menicus

 The realization of Truth is brought about by perception, and not in the
least by ten millions of acts....

 —Sankara

 Truth is tough. It will not break, like a bubble, at a touch....you may
kick it about all day like a football, and it will be round and full at
evening....

 —Oliver W. Holmes

 Every man seeks for the truth, but God only knows who has found it....

 —Philip Chesterfield

 If you seek truth, you will not seek to gain a victory by every
possible means; and when you have found the truth, you need not fear
being defeated....

 —Epictetus

 The truth is always the strongest argument....	 —Sophocles

 Hardly one in ten thousand will have the strength of mind to ask
himself seriously and earnestly, “Is that true?”...

 —Arthur Schopenhauer

 Truth does not change; if truth were to change, truth would not be
truth....

 —Anonymous

 Truth is not introduced into the individual from without, but was
within all the time....	 —Soren Kierkegaard

 Truth is always paradoxical....

 —Henry D. Thoreau

 There are many truths of which the full meaning cannot be realized
until personal experience has brought it home....

 —John S. Mill

 Whenever a man or a woman shuts himself or herself to the entrance of
truth on account of intellectual pride, preconceived opinions,
prejudices, or for whatever reason, there is a great law which says that
truth in its fullness will come to that one from no source....

 —Ralph W. Trine

 The truth is more important than facts....	 -—Frank L. Wright

 We know the truth; not only by reason, but also by the heart....

 —Blaise Pascal

 A lively, disinterested, persistent liking for truth is extraordinarily
rare....

 —Henri F. Amiel

 Whatever is only almost true is quite false, and among the most
dangerous of errors; being quite so near truth, it is more likely to
lead astray....

 —Henry W. Beecher

 You shall know the truth and the truth shall make you free....	
—Jesus

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Truth	*	4

 It is easier to perceive error than to find truth, for the former lies
on the surface and is easily seen, while the latter lies in the depth,
where few are willing to search for it....	— Johann W. Goethe

 Because God lives within you, then truth lives within you....

 —Albert E. Cliffe

 Self is the denial of Truth. Truth is the denial of self. As you let
self die, you will be reborn in Truth. As you cling to self, Truth will
be hidden from you....

 —James Allen

 To love the truth is to refuse to let oneself be saddened by it.... —
Andre Gide

 The man who finds a truth lights a torch....	— Robert Ingersoll

 Truth will always triumph; do not doubt this in the least....

 —Sathya Sai Baba

 There is nothing so powerful as truth and nothing so strange....

 —Daniel Webster

 Truth is the pearl without price. One cannot obtain truth by buying
it—all you can do is to strive for spiritual truth and when one is
ready, it will be given freely....	— Peace Pilgrim

 I cannot comprehend how any man can want anything but the truth....

 —Marcus Aurelius

 The name of God is Truth....

 —Hindu saying

 Truth is incontrovertible. Panic may resent it; ignorance may deride
it; malice may distort it; but there it is....

 —Winston Churchill

 Truth conquers all....

 —Latin proverb

  '8  ♦?	 Truth 

 	

 The fundamental truths are all men’s property. Whether or not we live
by them, we all know them, with deep instinctiveness....	— J. Donald
Adams

 We must be true inside, true to ourselves, before we can know a truth
that is outside us....	— Thomas Merton

 Tis strange—but true; for truth is always strange, stranger than
fiction....

 —George Byron

 Truth is a jewel which should not be painted over; but it may be set to
advantage and shown in good light....

 —George Santayana

 The language of truth is unadorned and simple....

 —Marcellinus Ammianus

 Truth and love are two of the most powerful things in the world; and
when they both go together they cannot easily be withstood....

 —Ralph Cudworth

 Without error there could no such thing as Truth....	— Chinese
proverb

 Every truth passes through three stages before it is recognized. In the
first it is ridiculed, in the second it is opposed, in the third it is
regarded as self-evident....	— Arthur Schopenhauer

 There is an inmost center in all of us where Truth abides in
fullness....

 —Robert Browning

 Truth is never realized by the weak....

 —Ramakrishnananda

 Truth is not only the fulfillment of our own being; it is that by which
things outside of us have an existence....

 —Confucius

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Truth 	♦?	 479 	♦?	 Truth

 	 ‘ispr		

 Emancipation from error is the condition of real knowledge....

 —Henri F. Amiel

 The greatest and noblest pleasure which men can have in this world is
to discover new truths; and the next is to shake off old prejudices....

 —Frederick the Great

 Truth, like light, blinds. Falsehood, on the contrary, is a beautiful
twilight that enhances every object....

 —Albert Camus

 Accept the truth; whatever the source....take the pearls from the sea,
the gold from the dust, and the roses from amidst the thorns....

 —Emmanuel

 The deepest truths are the simplest and the most common....

 —Frederick Robertson

 He who would claim to have all the truth and the only truth is a bigot,
a fool, or a knave.... — Ralph W. Trine

 Truth exists, only falsehood has to be invented....	— Georges Braque

 He who loves the Truth and subdues his whole being to the love of Truth
shall find it....	— Bhagavad-Gita

 Nothing is too amazing to be true....

 — M. Faraday

 A  man who seeks truth will never find it. Truth is in what IS and that
is the beauty in it....	— Sunyata

 The truth does not have to utter a word; it is just there. It speaks of
itself; it is the open book of the scripture of life. It is like the
light of the sun....

 —Vilayat I. Khan

 Truths turn into dogma the moment they are disputed....

 —G.  K. Chesterton

 Sit down before fact as a little child, be prepared to give up every
preconceived notion, follow humbly wherever and to whatever abyss nature
leads, or you shall learn nothing....

 —Thomas Huxley

 Never to have seen the truth is better than to have seen it and not
acted upon it....	— Anonymous

 The plain truth is too simple for the seeker of complexity, who is
looking for things he cannot understand....

 —Hazrat Inayat Khan

 There is no God higher than Truth....

 —Mohandas Gandhi

 The truth is men have lost their belief in the Invisible....it is no
longer a worship of the Beautiful and Good, but a calculation of the
Profitable....

 —Thomas Carlyle

 An intimate truth is also a universal truth....	— John Cournos

 Truth is something you stumble into when you think you’re going
someplace else....	— Jerry Garcia

 Truth is a diamond that scratches every other stone....	— Shantidasa

 To live in the presence of great truths and eternal laws—that is what
keeps a man patient when the world ignores him and calm and unspoiled
when the world praises him....

 —Honore de Balzac

 The exact contrary of what is generally believed is often the truth....

 —Jean La Bruyere

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Truth 	♦?	 480 	♦?	 Truth

 	 ‘JSP?		

 Once we imagine that we have grasped the truth of life, the truth has
vanished, for truth cannot become anyone’s property, the reason being
that truth is life, and for one person to think that he possesses all
truth is a manifest absurdity.... — Alan W. Watts

 A  truth that’s told with bad intent beats all the lies you can
invent....

 —William Blake

 Truth is the center of the circle....

 —Abraham Ibn Ezra

 Truth does not change because it is, or is not, believed by a majority
of the people....	— Giordano Bruno

 Every truth we see is one to give to the world, not to keep to
ourselves alone....

 —Elizabeth C. Stanton

 Truth makes the face of that person shine who speaks and owns it....

 —Robert South

 We must never throw away a bushel of truth because it happens to
contain a few grains of chaff.... — Arthur Stanley

 The simplest questions are the hardest to answer....	 -—Northrop Frye

 Truth is our most common synonym for God and can carry only one
message: the standard of God. Truth cannot be qualified as bad truth,
better Truth or good Truth. Truth is just Truth! It never changes....

 —James B. Schafer

 Nature has planted in our minds an insatiable longing to see the
truth....

 —Cicero

 Truth is like light; you must be accustomed to it gradually; otherwise
it dazzles you....	— Allan Kardec

 We cannot get hold of the truth with a logical mind....Truth cannot be
encompassed by facts....

 —Darwin Gross

 The city of truth cannot be built on the swampy ground of
skepticism....

 —Albert Schweitzer

 Truth always expresses itself with the greatest simplicity.... —
Pierre Schmidt

 The deepest truth blooms only from the deepest love....	— Heinrich
Heine

 Though the sages speak in diverse ways, they express one and the same
Truth....	— Srimad Bhagavatam

 Truth by her own simplicity is known....	— Robert Herrick

 I arrived at Truth, not by systematic reasoning and accumulation of
proofs but by a flash of light which God sent into my soul....	—
Al-Ghazali

 To seek for the truth, for the sake of knowing the truth, is one of the
noblest objects a man can live for....

 —Dean Inge

 He who is not true himself will not see the truth....	— Paracelsus

 Hard are the ways of truth, and rough to walk....	— John Milton

 The measure of a man’s truth is the measure of his love, and Truth is
far removed from him whose life is not governed by Love....	— James
Allen

 Man can live his truth, his deepest truth, but cannot speak it....

 —Archibald MacLeish

 Know the truth and you will know its Master....	— Shem Tob Falaquera

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Truth	*	4

 Truth may be stretched, but cannot be broken, and always gets above
falsehood, as oil does above water....

 —Miguel de Cervantes

 The greatest friend of truth is Time, her greatest enemy is Prejudice,
and her constant companion is Humility....

 —Charles C. Colton

 When once we KNOW the Truth, no one can take it away from us. We have
entered into the Eternal....When we KNOW the Truth....we enter into
Reality: we see things as they are in God, and not as they falsely
appear to the senses. All problems are solved, and all our questions
answered; or, rather, they are transcended, and we find there are no
problems to be solved and no questions to be answered, simply because we
KNOW....

 —Henry T. Hamblin

 We forget that Truth is self-sufficient and self-sustaining and does
not require human hand to protect it....

 —Paramananda

 Truth that has merely been learned is like an artificial limb, a false
tooth, a waxen nose, it adheres to us only because it is put on. But
truth acquired by thought of our own is like a natural limb, it alone
belongs to us....

 —Arthur Schopenhauer

 Truth has no degrees. The sea has the same level at its greatest depth
as that point where it touches the shore....

 —Douglas Meador

 Whoever undertakes to set himself up as a judge in the field of Truth
and Knowledge is shipwrecked by the laughter of the gods....	— Albert
Einstein

 There is no negotiation with truth....

 —Ferdinand Lassalle

 1  ♦?	 War

 The way to combat noxious ideas iswith other ideas! The way to
combatfalsehoods is with truth....

 —William O. Douglas

 Truth is not to be found by anybodywho has not got an abundant sense
ofhumility. If you would swim on thebosom of the ocean of Truth you
mustreduce yourself to zero....

 —Mohandas Gandhi

 To love God and love the truth are oneand the same....	— Silvio
Pellico

 Truth has no special time of its own. Itshour is now—always....

 —Albert Schweitzer

 Spiritual truth should not be sold, lestthe seller be injured
spiritually. Youlose any spiritual contact the momentyou commercialize
it. Those who havethe truth would not be packaging it andselling it, so
anyone who is selling itreally does not possess it....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 A truth does not become greater by rep-etition....	— Maimonides

 &

  War 

 hen the rich wage war, it’s thepoor who die....

 — Jean-Paul Sartre

 The cannon thunders....limbs fly in all directions....one can hear the
groans of victims and the howling of those performing the
sacrifice....it’s Humanity in search of happiness....

 —Charles Baudelaire

 If it’s natural to kill why do men have to go into training to learn
how?...

 —Joan Baez

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   War

 We seem always ready to pay the price for war. Almost gladly we give
our time and our treasure—our limbs and even our lives—for war. But
we expect to get peace for nothing....	— Peace Pilgrim

 Minds are conquered not by arms, but by love and magnanimity....

 —Baruch Spinoza

 The most disadvantageous peace is better than the most just war....

 —Erasmus

 Can anything be more ridiculous than that a man has a right to kill
because he dwells on the other side of the water, and because his prince
has a quarrel with mine, although I have none with him....	— Blaise
Pascal

 When people talk about war I vow with all beings to raise my voice in
the chorus and speak of original peace....

 —Robert Aiken

 We are mad not only individually, but nationally. We check manslaughter
and isolated murders, but what of war and the much-vaulted crime of
slaughtering whole people....	— Seneca

 In peace, sons bury their fathers; in wars, fathers bury their sons....

 —Herodotus

 It takes twenty years or more of peace to make a man; it takes only
twenty seconds of war to destroy him....

 —Baudouin I

 All wars are wars among thieves who are too cowardly to fight and
therefore induce the young members of the world to do the fighting for
them....

 —Emma Goldman

 To oppose something is to maintain it....	— Ursula K. LeGuin

 War

 Fighting is like champagne. It goes to the heads of cowards as quickly
as of heros. Any fool can be brave on a battlefield when it’s be brave
or else be killed....	— Margaret Mitchell

 I hate war as only a soldier who has lived it can, only as one who has
seen its brutality, its futility, its stupidity....

 —Dwight D. Eisenhower

 I have known war as few men now living know it. Its very
destructiveness on both friend and foe has rendered it useless as a
means of settling international disputes....	— Douglas MacArthur

 The best general is the one who never fights....	— Sun Tzu

 War is the child of pride, and pride the daughter of riches.... —
Jonathan Swift

 You can no more win a war than you can win an earthquake....

 —Jeannette Rankin

 War is nothing more than the continuation of politics by other
means....

 —Carl von Clausewitz

 The first and most imperative necessity in war is money, for money
means everything else—men, guns, ammunition....	— Ida Tarbell

 During war we imprison the rights of man....	 —Jean Giraudoux

 Kill a man and you are a murderer. Kill millions and you are a
conqueror....

 —Jean Rostand

 The most persistent sound which reverberates through man’s history is
the beating of war drums....

 —Arthur Koestler

 War prefers its victims young....

 —Sophocles

 ♦?  482 *

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890       shapeType 32  lineWidth 8890    
  shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   War

 483

 - ‘Spr -

 War

 A  “just war” is a contradiction in terms....	 —John Quinn

 There is a war going on at the present moment. What does it signify? It
signifies that several millions of sleeping people are trying to destroy
several millions of other sleeping people. They would not do this, of
course, if they were awake....	 —George I. Gurdjieff

 He who is the author of war lets loose the whole contagion of hell and
opens a vein that bleeds a nation to death....

 —Thomas Paine

 Nothing....marks man’s unreason as positively as war. Indeed, what
folly to kill one another for interests often imaginary....	 —Mary W.
Montagu

 I find war detestable, but even more detestable are those who praise
war without participating in it....

 —Romain Rolland

 Anyone who has ever looked into the glazed eyes of a soldier dying on
the battlefield will think hard before starting a war....	 —Otto von
Bismarck

 War: first, one hopes to win; then, one expects the enemy to lose;
then, one is satisfied that he too is suffering; in the end, one is
surprised that everyone has lost....	 —Karl Kraus

 Even fighting in self defense is wrong, though it is higher than
fighting in aggression. There is no “righteous”, indignation because
indignation comes from not recognizing sameness in all things....	
—Vivehananda

 You cannot qualify war in harsher terms than I will. War is cruelty,
and you cannot refine it....

 —William  Sherman

 War would end if the dead could return....	 —Stanley Baldwin

 Wars are not fought for territory, but for words. Man’s deadliest
weapon is language. He is as susceptible to being hypnotized by slogans
as he is to infectious diseases....	 —Arthur Koestler

 War’s a profanity, because let’s face it, you’ve got two opposing
sides trying to settle their differences by killing as many of each
other as they can....

 —Norman Schwarzkopf

 War is only a cowardly escape from the problems of peace.... 
-—Thomas Mann

 To my mind, to kill in war is not a whit better than to commit ordinary
murder....	 -—Albert Einstein

 The world does not encourage a perfectly rational army, because a
perfectly rational army would run away....

 —G.  K. Chesterton

 There never was a time when, in my opinion, some way could not be found
to prevent the drawing of a sword....

 —Ulysses S. Grant

 War is the greatest of all crimes; and yet there is no aggressor who
does not color his crime with the pretext of justice....	 —Voltaire

 Wars will exist until that distant day when the conscientious objector
enjoys the same reputation and prestige that the warrior does today....

 —John F. Kennedy

 Armament is an important factor in war, but not the decisive
factor....Man, not material, forms the decisive factor....	 —Mao
Tse-tung

 The first casualty when war comes is truth....	 —Hiram Johnson

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   War

 484

 War

 Patriotism is a kind of religion; it is the egg from which wars are
hatched....

 —Guy de Maupassant

 The greatest curse that can be entailed on mankind is a state of
war....

 —Sydney Smith

 The appalling thing about war is that it kills all love of truth....

 —Georg Brandes

 Every gun that is made, every warship launched, every rocket fired,
signifies in the final sense a theft from those who are hungry and are
not fed, those who are cold and not clothed....

 —Dwight D. Eisenhower

 Every war is a national misfortune....

 —Helmuth von Moltke

 They wrote in the old days that it is sweet and fitting to die for
one’s country. But in modern war there is nothing sweet and fitting in
your dying. You will die like a dog for no good reason....

 —Ernest Hemingway

 Worse than war is the fear of war....

 —Seneca

 Preparation for war is a constant stimulus to suspicion and ill
will....

 —James Monroe

 War is the unfolding of miscalculations....	— Barbara Tuchman

 There is no such thing as an inevitable war. If war comes it will be
from the failure of human wisdom....

 —Bonar Law

 War is fear cloaked in courage....

 —William Westmoreland

 There will be no veterans of World War III....	— Walter Mondale

 War should belong to the tragic past, to history; it should find no
place on humanity’s agenda for the future....

 —John Paul II

 We hear war called murder. It is not: it is suicide....	— Ramsay
MacDonald

 The human race is a family. Men are brothers. All wars are civil
wars....

 —Adlai Stevenson

 If war no longer occupied men’s thoughts and energies, we would,
within a generation, put an end to all serious poverty throughout the
world....

 -—Bertrand Russell

 To fight and conquer in all our battles is not supreme excellence;
supreme excellence consists in breaking the enemy’s resistance without
fighting....

 —Sun  Tzu

 If sunbeams were weapons of war, we would have had solar energy long
ago....	— George Porter

 The most important wars in history were the result of trivial
causes....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 Wars can be prevented just as surely as they can be provoked, and we
who fail to prevent them must share in the guilt of the dead....	—
Omar Bradley

 War is an instrument entirely inefficient toward redressing wrong; and
multiplies, instead of indemnifying

 losses....	— Thomas Jefferson

 Wars do not end wars....

 —Henry Ford

 Older men declare war. But it is youth that must fight and die....

 —Herbert Hoover

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065    War 

 Why is there war? The real problem is immaturity. With real maturity
war would be impossible. It would never be considered as a solution of
problems between men....	— Peace Pilgrim

 War is not an adventure. It is a disease. It is like typhus....

 —Antoine de Saint-Exnpery

 The guns and the bombs, the rockets and the warships, all are symbols
of human failure.... — Lyndon B. Johnson

 Sometime they’ll give a war and nobody will show....	— Carl
Sandburg

 If there is anything in which earth more than any other, resembles
hell, it is its wars....	 —Albert	Baines

 War is delightful to those who have had no experience of it....	—
Erasmus

 Wars occur because people prepare for conflict, rather than
peace....War can be abolished forever by providing clothing, food, and
housing, instead of bombers, destroyers and rockets....

 —Trygve Lie

 Patriotism is the passion of fools and the most foolish of passions....

 —Arthur Schopenhauer

 Men will fight and die without knowing what they are fighting and dying
for....	— Douglas MacArthur

 War is low and despicable, and I had rather be smitten to shreds than
participate in such doings. Such a stain upon humanity should be erased
without delay....	— Albert Einstein

 To call war the soil of courage and virtue is like calling debauchery
the soil of love....	— George Santayana

  War 

 It would be true to say that no onebelieves that war pays....

 —Norman Angell

 No amount of treaties can be relied onto prevent war, so long as the
nationscontinue to have and exercise the unre-stricted right of arming
themselvesagainst each other....  —Robert Cecil

 War. There is no solution for it. There isnever a conqueror. The winner
gener-ates such hatred that he is ultimatelydefeated....	— Michel
Simon

 War is nothing but a duel on a largerscale....	— Carl von Clausewitz

 The grim fact is that we prepare for warlike precious giants and for
peace likeretarded pygmies....	— Lester Pearson

 Peace remains the hope of the wise, butwar is the history of men....

 —Charles de Gaulle

 Give me the money that has been spentin war, and I will clothe every
man,woman and child in an attire of whichkings and queens would be
proud. Iwill build a school house in every val-ley over the whole
earth....

 —Charles Sumner

 War is nothing less than a temporaryrepeal of the principles of
virtue....

 —Robert Hall

 War is that mad game the world soloves to play....	— Jonathan Swift

 War is death’s feast....

 —George Herbert

 Patriotism is a beautiful thing, it is wellto love my country, but why
should Ilove my country more than I love oth-ers? If I love my own and
hate others, Ishow my limitations....

 —Ralph W. Trine

 ♦?  485  ♦?

 S’S*

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   War	*	4

 War is a contagion....

 —Franklin D. Roosevelt

 Peace is the happy natural state of man; war is corruption and
disgrace....

 —James Thomson

 War is the science of destruction....

 —John S. C. Abbot

 Wars are not “acts of God.” They are caused by man, by man-made
institutions, by the way in which man has organized society. What man
has made, man can change....

 —Frederick M. Vinson

 War is that condition which uses man’s best to man’s worst....

 —Harry E. Fosdich

 War settles nothing....

 —Dwight D. Eisenhower

 &

  Wealth 

 T

 wo of the hardest things to accom-plish in this world are to acquire

 wealth by honest effort and havinggained it, to learn how to use it
proper-ly....	— Elmer H. Bobst

 Wealth is conspicious, but poverty hides....	— James Reston

 When you pile up riches, fear and anxiety are also piling up in
proportion....

 —Sathya Sai Baba

 Most of the rich people I’ve known have been fairly miserable....

 —Agatha Christie

 There is no wealth but life....That country is the richest which
nourishes the greatest number of noble and happy human beings....	—
John Ruskin

 6  * 	 Wealth

 The imperishable, inexhaustible wealth is the spiritual wealth. No
thief can plunder this. He who has this wealth is the richest
man....even if he is clad in rags, even if he has nothing to eat. He is
the King of Kings. All other wealthy persons in the world are verily
poor. They are beggers despite their material possessions....	—
Sivananda

 The God of this century is wealth. To succeed one must have wealth. At
all costs one must have wealth....

 —Oscar Wilde

 We cannot hope to possess other true riches than those we already bear
within us, and we should use them and not neglect them, but they
are....so familiar to us that they no longer appear of any value....	—
Pierre Schmidt

 No one has had the courage to memorialize his wealth on his tombstone.
A dollar sign would not look good there....

 —Corra M. Harris

 Surplus wealth is a sacred trust which its possessor is bound to
administer in his lifetime for the good of the community....	— Andrew
Carnegie

 Wealth acquired through an insecure lifestyle that is marred by
uncertainty, instability and excessive efforts is no wealth at all....
— Tom Seeley

 No man can tell whether he is rich or poor by turning to his ledger. It
is the heart that makes a man rich. He is rich according to what he is,
not according to what he has....	— Henry W. Beecher

 The longer I live, the more I grow in the opinion that it is useless to
pile up wealth....	-— Francoise de Maintenon

 The more wealth, the more worry....

 —Hillel

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Wealth 	♦?	 487	*	Wealth

 The fountains are with the rich, but they are no better than a stagnant
pool till they flow in streams to the laboring people....	— Catherine
M. Sedgwick

 This is surely a short cut to wealth. If one wants nothing he has
everything....

 —Julian P. Johnson

 Wealth and happiness do not dwell together. Rare is that wealthy man
who does not have rivals and enemies who scandalize him....	— Yoga
Vasistha

 Real riches consist not in the abundance of goods but in the paucity of
wants....	— Alfred Marshall

 Man’s greatest wealth is to live on a little with contented mind; for
a little is never lacking....	— Julius Caesar

 A poor person who is unhappy is in a better position than a rich person
who is unhappy because the poor person has hope. He thinks money would
help....	— Jean Kerr

 A  man’s true wealth hereafter is the good he does in this world to
his fel- low-man....	— Mohammed

 A  stingy person will always be poor, a generous person always rich....

 —Anonymous

 The idea of hoarding money for the selfish satisfaction of being
considered rich is pretty good proof that you cannot appreciate the
magic influence of a beautiful sunset....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 Most rich people do not know how poor they really are....	—
Shantidasa

 Wealth is affliction disguised as good....

 —Bahya

 Wealth beyond a certain amount cannot be used, and when it cannot be
used, then it becomes a hindrance rather than an aid, a curse rather
than a blessing....	 —Ralph W. Trine

 Even if one possessed the wealth of the whole world, but had no love
for God, that man would be poor....

 —Chidananda

 The greatest wealth is to live content with little, for there is never
want where the mind is satisfied....

 —Lucretius

 Who trusts in his riches shall fall....

 —Old Testament

 Riches harden the heart faster than boiling water an egg....from
poverty our own power can save us, from riches only divine grace....	—
Ludwig Boeme

 As wealth is power, so all power must infallibly draw wealth to itself
by some means or other.... — Edmmid Burke

 Wealth is not a deterrent to self-realization or to true happiness, if
enjoyed with a feeling of detachment....To enjoy wealth with a feeling
of attachment is to be always aware that wealth is not permanent, as
also that, by itself, it is not the giver of true happiness and eternal
peace....	— DeepaKodikal

 Wealth is the diploma of slavery....A great fortune is a great
slavery....

 —Seneca

 Every man is rich or poor according to the proportion between his
desires and his enjoyments....	— Samuel Johnson

 The wealth of a man is the number of things which he loves and blesses,
which he is loved and blessed by....

 —Thomas Carlyle

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Wealth 	♦?	 4

 You are like a traveler who comes and goes. You accumulate wealth and
take pride in your riches. But when you leave, you take nothing with
you. You came into the world with your fists clenched, but when you go,
your hands will be open....	— Kabir

 Wealth is like sea-water; the more we drink, the thirstier we
become....

 —Arthur Schopenhauer

 The only thing wealth does for some people is to make them worry about
losing it....	— Comte de Rivarol

 All amassing of wealth or hoarding of wealth above and beyond one’s
legitimate needs is theft....

 —Mohandas Gandhi

 To try to extinguish the desire for riches with money is like trying to
quench a fire with butterfat.... — Hindu saying

 Riches are apt to betray a man into arrogance....	— Joseph Addison

 Great wealth can be like a huge sledge hammer in one’s hand—you try
to touch gently with it, you cannot, it smashes at every touch....

 —Gerald Heard

 Ill-gotten wealth is never stable....

 —Euripides

 Real wealth is the soul in repose....

 —Samuel Hoffenstein

 Riches do not consist in the possession of treasure, but in the use
made of them....	— Napoleon Bonaparte

 Who is rich? He who rejoices in his lot....	— Tonna Ben Zona

 Riches are not forbidden, but the pride of them is....	— John
Chrysostom

 8  ♦?	 Wealth

 Riches do not delight so much with their possession, as torment us with
their loss....	— Samuel Gregory

 Without a rich heart, wealth is an ugly beggar....	— Ralph W. Emerson

 The problem of our age is the proper administration of wealth, so that
the ties of brotherhood may still bind together the rich and poor in
harmonious relationship....

 —Andrew Carnegie

 The one who has come into the realization of the higher life no longer
has a desire for the accumulation of enormous wealth, anymore than he
has a desire for any other excess....

 —Ralph W. Trine

 No wealth in the world can help humanity forward, even in the hands of
the most devoted worker in this cause....	— Albert Einstein

 To whom can riches give repute or trust, content or pleasure, but to
the good and just.... — Alexander Pope

 Riches prick us with a thousand troubles in getting them, as many cares
in preserving them, and yet more anxieties in spending them, and with
grief in losing them.... — Jean P. Camus

 Very few men acquire wealth in such a manner as to receive pleasure
from it....

 —Henry W. Beecher

 The rich who only use their wealth for selfish purposes are sowing the
seeds of eventual poverty. All that is not given is lost....	—
Shantidasa

 The desire to gain wealth and the fear to lose it are our chief
breeders of cowardice and propagators of corruption....

 —William James

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Wealth 	♦?	 489 	♦?	 Wealth

   	

 There is nothing so characteristic of narrowness and littleness of soul
as the love of riches; and there is nothing more honorable or noble than
indifference to money....	— Cicero

 The riches that you should strive to amass are not fields or factories,
bungalows or bank balances, but wisdom and experience of oneness with
the grandeur of the Universe and the force that runs it without a
hitch....

 —Sathya Sai Baba

 Wealth is like a viper, which is harmless if a man knows how to take
hold of it; but if he does not, it will twine round his hand and bite
him....

 — St. Clement

 If we foster our attention on what we have rather than what we lack, a
very little wealth is sufficient....

 —Francis Johnson

 One of the main reasons wealth makes people unhappy is that it gives
them too much control over what they experience. They try to translate
their own fantasies into reality instead of tasting what reality itself
has to offer....

 —Philip Slater

 To have a tranquil mind, a clean, calm, conscientious purpose, a few
true friends, good health, a happy home, a sufficient amount saved to
guarantee against any embarrassment from want, means that you are
wealthy....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 The advantages of wealth are greatly exaggerated....	— Amasa L.
Stanford

 Of all the riches that we hug, of all the pleasures we enjoy, we can
carry no more out of this world than out of a dream....	— James
Bonnell

 Wealthy men are generally insolvent and arrogant; their possession of
wealth affects their understanding; they feel as if they have every good
thing that exists; wealth becomes a sort of standard for everything
else, and therefore they imagine there is nothing it cannot buy....	—
Aristotle

 Men who think they possess their wealth are on the contrary completely
possessed by it....

 —Ralph W. Trine

 A rich man is nothing but a poor man with money....	— W.	C. Fields

 To be rich is not the end, but only a change of worries....	—
Epicurus

 Let us not envy some men their accumulated riches; their burden would
be too heavy for us; we would not sacrifice, as they do, health, quiet,
honor and conscience, to obtain them....

 —Jean La Bruyere

 That man is rich whose pleasures are the cheapest....	— Henry D.
Thoreau

 The best and safest way of getting wealth is to work for it....

 —Queen Elizabeth of Rumania

 He is richest who is content with the least, for content is the wealth
of nature....	 Socrates

 He is poor who is dissatisfied; he is rich who is contented with what
he has; and he is richer who is generous with what he has....	— James
Allen

 Wealth has never given happiness but has often hastened misery....

 —Martin F. Tupper

 The amassment of wealth is one of the worst species of idolatry, no
idol more debasing....	— Andrew Carnegie

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Wealth	*	A

 It is neither wealth or splendor, but tranquility and occupation, which
gives happiness....	— Thomas Jefferson

 People with material wealth and enjoyments do not generally feel the
necessity to think of God....Man depends upon wealth and glory—the
so-called good things for his joy. They are illusive. The joy you
receive from them is a flicker. Next second the light is gone and you
are enveloped in the darkness....

 —Papa Ramdas

  Wisdom 

 isdom is the end attained, theprize which has been offered.

 God gives it to those who deserve it,nobody brings it with them at
birth....

 —Eliphas Levi

 The heart of a wise man lies quiet like still water....	— Cameroonian
proverb

 Wisdom is not gained by traveling afar, but by standing still; not by
thought, but by the absense of thought....

 —Anonymous

 The wisest man simply has nothing to say. He realizes that all
thoughts, words and acts and even enlightenment are only relative....The
very wisest spiritual soul knows for a fact that he is ignorant and
understands nothing, for his knowledge is relative unto a higher
reality....	— A Spiritual Warrior

 The sage has no creed of his own; and the reason is that he is
egoless....

 —Lakshmana Sarma

  0  ♦?	 Wisdom 

 ?  	

 Wisdom never kicks at the iron walls it

 can’t bring down....	— Olive Schreiner

 Wisdom lies neither in fixity nor in change, but in the dialectic
between the two....	— Octavio Paz

 Though a man be learned if he does not apply his knowledge, he
resembles the blind man, who, lamp in hand, cannot see the road....	—
Tibetan saying

 The greatest wisdom is not to be wise....

 —Catherine Willoughby

 The only competition worthy a wise man is with himself....

 —Anna B. Jameson

 The beginning of wisdom is the beginning of supernatural power....

 —Paracelsus

 Who is a wise man? He who learns from all men....	— The Talmud

 With wisdom we flourish and live. Without it we wither and die. With
wisdom, years can keep us young in heart and mind. Without it we grow
old. With wisdom we can be strong and know no fear. Without it we become
weak and frightened....

 —Dore Schary

 Wisdom is to see the miraculous in the common....	— Ralph W. Emerson

 All human wisdom is summed up in two words—wait and hope....

 —Alexandre Dumas

 Wisdom gives praise liberally and makes promises discreetly....

 —Shantidasa

 The art of being wise is the art of knowing what to overlook....

 —William James

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Wisdom	*	4

 True wisdom consists in not departing from nature and in molding our
conduct according to her laws.... — Seneca

 Our knowledge is a little island in a great ocean of non-knowledge....

 —Isaac Bashevis Singer

 The more I know, the more I realize I don’t know....	— Albert
Einstein

 Wise are they who have learned the truths: Trouble is temporary. Time
is tonic. Tribulation is a test tube....

 —William A. Ward

 The wise man is never surprised by death: he is always ready to
depart....

 —Jean La Fontaine

 Wisdom is like gold ore, mixed with stones and dust....	— Moses Ibn
Ezra

 Wisdom is the principal thing; therefore get wisdom: and with all thy
getting, get understanding....

 —Old Testament

 The Delphic oracle said I was the wisest of all the Greeks. It is
because that I alone, of all the Greeks, know that I know nothing....
— Socrates

 The ignorant work for their own profit; the wise work for the welfare
of the world....	— Bhagavad-Gita

 When you have gained true wisdom, you will find that good fortune
should not be gloated over, nor bad fortune grieved over....	— Sathya
Sai Baba

 The way of the sage is to act but not compete....	— Lao-tzu

 The only thing that we can know is that we know nothing and that is the
highest flight of human wisdom....

 —Leo Tolstoy

 1  ♦?	 Wisdom

 A  wise man feels he is not so wise; otherwise, he is not wise....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 To understand all makes us very tolerant....	— Madam de Stael

 All true wisdom is only learned far from the dwellings of men, out in
the great solitudes, and is to be attained through suffering....	—
Igjugarjuk

 Many men can utter words of wisdom, few men can practice it
themselves....

 —Hitopadesa

 Wisdom will never be noticed since it always resides in order,
calmness, harmony and peace....	— Eliphas Levi

 Wisdom is knowledge of God. Wisdom comes by intuition. It far
transcends knowledge....	— Ralph W. Trine

 By rousing himself, by earnestness, by restraint and control, the wise
man makes for himself an island which no flood can immerse.... —
Dhammapada

 The sage must distinguish between knowledge and wisdom. Knowledge is of
things, acts and relations. But wisdom is of God alone; and, beyond all
things, acts, and relations, it abides forever. To become one with God
is the only wisdom....	— The Upanishads

 In every heart there dwelleth a sage; only man will not steadfastly
believe it....	— Wang Yang Ming

 Wise company will make thee also wise....	— Sufi saying

 The end of learning is to know God, and out of that knowledge to love
him....	— John Milton

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Wisdom	*	492 	♦?	 Wisdom

  	

 Cleverness is not wisdom....

 —Euripides

 Wisdom is not in words, it is in understanding....	— Hazrat Inayat
Khan

 Wisdom denotes the pursuing of the best ends by the best means....

 —Frances Hutcheson

 Aim for wisdom. If you become poor it will be wealth for you; if you
become rich it will adorn you....	— El-Zubeir

 Wisdom is ofttimes nearer when we stoop than when we soar....

 —William Wordsworth

 The fruit of wisdom is peace....

 —Chinese proverb

 The wise man is he who knows the relative value of things.... 
—William R. Inge

 The most certain sign of wisdom is continual cheerfulness; her state is
like that of things in the regions above the moon, always clear and
serene....

 —Michel Montaigne

 Wisdom does not attain completeness except through the living of
life....

 —Rabindranath Tagore

 He who learns the rules of wisdom, without conforming to them in his
life, is like a man who labors in his field, but did not sow....	—
Saadi

 The learning and knowledge that we have is, at the most, but little
compared with that of which we are ignorant....

 —Plato

 If we desire wisdom we must seek for it, work for it, and pray for it.
We must patiently strive for the wisdom that we desire and then we must
pass it out to others who are also seeking wisdom....

 —Amber M. Tuttle

 Pain is the father, and love is the mother, of wisdom....	— Ludwig
Borne

 All wish to possess knowledge, but few, comparatively speaking, are
willing to pay the price....	— Juvenal

 The wise man realizes how little he knows; it is the foolish person who
imagines that he knows everything....

 —Jawaharlal Nehru

 The truly wise make no plans, and therefore require no wisdom....

 —Chuang Tse

 The wise man thinks about his troubles only when there is some purpose
in doing so; at other times he thinks about other things....	—
Bertrand Russell

 Divine wisdom is inexhaustible; the limitation is only in the receptive
faculty of the form....

 —Henry Madathanas

 It is knowledge that ultimately gives salvation....	— Mohandas Gandhi

 Great wisdom consists in not demanding too much of human nature, and
yet not altogether	spoiling it by indulgence....	— Lin Yutang

 The truly wise are anonymous; they do not display wisdom for the
benefit or admiration of others....

 —Anonymous

 Discrimination is the mark of wisdom....	— Bhikkhu Pesala

 The wisest man preaches no doctrines; he has no scheme; he sees no
rafter, not even a cobweb, against the heavens. It is a clear sky....
— Henry D. Thoreau

 From the errors of others a wise man corrects his own....	— Publilius
Syrus

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Wisdom	*	493 	♦?	 Wisdom

  	

 Wisdom is the child of experience....

 —John F. Kennedy

 Humility, unostentatiousness, non-injury, forgiveness, simplicity,
purity, steadfastness, self-control; this is declared to be wisdom; what
is opposed to this is ignorance....

 — Bhagavad-Gita

 The wise man endeavors to shine in himself; the fool to outshine
others....

 —Joseph Addison

 Is there not one true coin for which all things ought to be
exchanged?—and that is wisdom....	— Plato

 Remind yourself that all men assert that wisdom is the greatest good,
but that there are few who strenuously endeavor to obtain this greatest
good....

 —Pythagoras

 A  man’s wisdom is his best friend....

 —William Temple

 Wisdom begets humility....

 —Abraham Ibn Ezra

 The attempt to combine wisdom and power has only rarely been successful
and then only for a short time....

 —Albert Einstein

 Fruitless is the wisdom of him who has no knowledge of himself....	—
Erasmus

 A  wise man hears one word and understands two....	— Yiddish saying

 Wisdom, properly used, is a remedy for every ill; but when misdirected,
becomes an incurable disease....

 —Bahaya

 To know that which before us lies in daily life is the prime wisdom....

 —John Milton

 The surest sign of a man of the highest wisdom is that he is
unattracted by the pleasures of the world, for in him even the subtle
tendencies have ceased. When these tendencies are strong, there is
bondage; when they have ceased, there is liberation....

 —Yoga Vasistha

 The price of wisdom is above rubies....

 —Old Testament

 Wisdom amazes all that is sensible of her, but is herself not amazed at
anything. ...	— Apollonius of Tyana

 Not to know certain things is a great part of wisdom.... — Hugo
Grotius

 Who is wise? He that learns from everybody....	— Benjamin Franklin

 Fools scatter about their many attributes, the wise keep such within; a
piece of straw floats upon the surface of water, a precious gemstone
sinks to the bottom. Therefore, it is best to disregard the seen and
concentrate upon the unseen. Only within the latter may riches be
found....

 —Ancient Greek parable

 Wisdom is meaningless until your own experience has given it
meaning....

 —Bergen Evans

 Wisdom does not rub off from one to another. Enlightenment is a do-it-
yourself project....	— Shantidasa

 Make wisdom your provision from youth to old age, for it is more
certain support than all other possessions....

 —Diogenes

 The beginning of wisdom is the definition of words....	— Socrates

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Wisdom	*	4

 Wisdom is not communicable. The wisdom which a wise man tries to
communicate always sounds foolish. Knowledge can be communicated, but
not wisdom. One can find it, live it, be fortified by it, do wonders
through it, but one cannot communicate and teach it....	— Hermann
Hesse

 Wisdom....may be summed up in four words: to know, to will, to love,
and to do what is true, good, beautiful and just....	— Eliphas Levi

 We are wiser than we know....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 The falling drops of water will in time fill a water-jar. Even so the
wise man becomes full of good, although he may gather it little by
little....

 —Dhammapada

 The wisest man is generally he who thinks himself the least so....

 —Nicolas Boileau

 Wisdom will not dwell in a body enslaved by evil....

 — Apocrypha: Wisdom of Solomon

 One cannot have wisdom without living life....	— Dorothy McCall

 To find God is but the beginning of wisdom, because then for all our
lives we have to learn His purpose with us and to live our lives with
Him....

 —H. G. Wells

 Wisdom is usually acquired at the cost of great pain.... — Harold S.
Kushner

 Wisdom lifts the poor man’s head, and sets him among princes....

 — Apocrypha: Ben Sira

 It is not wise to be wiser than necessary....	— Philippe Quinault

  4 *	Wisdom 

 ? 	

 He is a miserable man who knows all things and does not know God; and
he is happy who knows God, even though he knows nothing else....	—
Augustine

 Even wisdom has to yield to self-interest....	— Pindar

 It is characteristic of wisdom not to do desperate things.... — Henry
D. Thoreau

 The wise man lives after the image of God and is not guided by the ways
of the world. And he who imitates the image of God will conquer the
stars....

 —Paracelsus

 The wisdom of the world is foolishness with God....	— Paul of Tarsus

 The truly learned man is he who understands that what he knows is but
little in comparison with what he does not know....	— Arabian saying

 Knowledge is power, but only wisdom is liberty....	— Will Durant

 Wisdom is the soul’s natural food....

 —Jacob Anatoli

 If then you do not make yourself equal to God, you cannot apprehend
God; for like is known by like.... — Hermes

 There are two classes of the wise; the men who serve God because they
have found him, and the men who seek him because they have not found
him....

 —Richard Cecil

 Wisdom comes from disillusionment....

 —George Santayana

 Wisdom is like fire: a little enlightens, too much of it can burn....

 —Moses Ibn Ezra

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Wisdom 	♦?	 4

 A physician is not angry at the intemperance of a mad patient, nor does
he take it ill to be insulted by a man in fever. Just so, should a wise
man treat all mankind as a physician treats a patient, and look upon it
only as sick and irresponsible....	— Seneca

 Mere silence is not wisdom, for wisdom consists in knowing when and how
to speak and when and where to keep silent....	— Jean P. Camus

 Wisdom saves, not sentimentality....

 —Vernon Howard

 Wisdom is knowing which bridge to burn and which to cross over....

 —Anonymous

 M

  Words 

 VV7 hen old words die out on the  W  tongue, new melodies break forth
from the heart....

 —Rabindranath Tagore

 Because the truth cannot be accurately conveyed in words, it is
pointless to query one man’s opinion of the truth with another
collection of words....

 —Ramana Maharshi

 Words do not reach beyond the mind....

 —Nisargadatta

 No human words can ever express that which we call Truth, Spirit, or
God. Yet those who have trodden the path of search before us have left
some traces of their experiences in the sacred scriptures of all the
religions of the world....	— Mouni Sadhu

 Words are employed to conceal ideas....

 —French saying

 5  ♦?	 Words

 The six greatest words on earth are: “Control thyself!”—Cicero;
“Know thyself!”—Socrates; “Give thyself!”—Jesus....

 —Anonymous

 Words are not as satisfactory as we should like them to be, but, like
our neighbors, we have got to live with them and must make the best and
not the worst of them....	— Samuel Butler

 You should always keep your word. All the setbacks in life come only
because you don’t keep your word....

 —Sivananda

 One word frees us of all the weight and pain of life: that word is
love....

 —Sophocles

 We are held accountable for the very words which we speak....By our
words we are justified or condemned....

 —Ernest Holmes

 Be careful what you say when you talk with words....for words are made
of syllables and syllables are made of air....

 —Carl Sandburg

 Harsh and bitter words serve no useful purpose and only exhibit
weakness....

 —Shantidasa

 Words can be a power for good—or they can be a power for evil....

 —James G. Keller

 We have too many high sounding words, and too few actions that
correspond with them....	— Abigail Adams

 A thousand words will not leave so deep an impression as one deed....

 —Henrik Ibsen

 Words, like glasses, obscure everything which they do not make
clear....

 —Joseph Joubert

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Words 	♦?	 496 	♦?	 Words

 	isp-	

 We should believe only in deeds; words go for nothing everywhere....

 —Fernando Rojas

 Words are, of course, the most powerful drug used by mankind....

 —Rudyard Kipling

 False words are not only evil in themselves, but they infect the soul
with evil....	— Plato

 Mere words cannot be relied upon. Overdependence on them leads to bad
results....	— I Ching

 One word can be canceled by another....

 —The Talmud

 Monks and scholars should accept my word not out of respect, but upon
analyzing it as a goldsmith analyzes gold, through cutting, melting,
scraping and rubbing it....	— Gautama Buddha

 Do not say a little in many words, but a great deal in a few....	—
Pythagoras

 Now if these words are helpful to you, put them into practice. But if
they aren’t helpful, then there’s no need for them....	— Dalai
Lama

 The more a writer rambles, the less a reader remembers. Facts require
few words....You have noticed that the more limbs on a tree, the smaller
the fruit on the branches. The more words, the less wisdom....	— Fred
Van Amburgh

 By your words you will be justified; and by your words you will be
condemned....	— Jesus

 We should have a great many fewer disputes in the world if words were
taken for what they are, the signs of our ideas only, and not for the
things themselves....	— John Locke

 One person who has mastered life is better than a thousand persons who
have only mastered the contents of books, but no one can get anything
out of life without God....	— Meister Echhart

 Words cannot describe everything. The heart’s message cannot be
communicated in words....	— Ekai

 All words are pegs to hang ideas on....

 —Henry W. Beecher

 The word once spoken flies beyond recall....	— Aesop

 Let thy words be few when in the midst of many....	— Teresa of Avila

 Words are like leaves, and where they most abound, much fruit of sense
is rarely found....	— Alexander Pope

 Words are but the shadows of thoughts and feelings....  —Hazrat
Inayat Khan

 Try saying “war” or “cancer” or “money” ten thousand times,
and you will find that your whole mood has been changed and colored by
the associations connected with the word. Similarly, the name of God
will change the climate of your mind. It cannot do otherwise....	—
Prabhavananda

 There is no choice of words for him who clearly sees the truth....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 There are too many who are content to learn words by heart, and to put
words in the place of experience. No one can understand these things
unless he has experienced them himself....

 —Carl Jung

 A very great part of the mischiefs that vex this world arises from
words....

 —Edmund Burke

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Words

 497

 •*p‘ ■?

 Words

 The words of a man who practices austerity of speech cannot cause pain
to others. His words will bring cheer and solace to others. His words
will prove beneficial to all....	— Sivananda

 A word to the wise is sufficient....

 —Terence

 Words do not express thoughts very well. They always become a little
different immediately after they are expressed, a little distorted, a
little foolish....

 —Hermann Hesse

 Never utter an ugly word....

 —Levi Joshua

 The tongue of man is a twisty thing, there are plenty of words there of
every kind....	— Homer

 Words and magic were in the beginning one and the same thing, and even
today words retain much of their magical power....	— Sigmund Freud

 God is wordless....

 -Paul Twitched

 Words are the most powerful thing in the universe....Words are
containers. They contain faith, or fear, and they produce after their
kind....

 —Charles Capps

 A hasty, sarcastic word....can quickly undo or offset many advances
toward good. Seldom is anyone won by being nagged, irritated, or
belittled....

 —James G. Keller

 Men of few words are the best men....

 —William Shakespeare

 One kind word has more power within it than a dozen ultimatums....

 —Anonymous

 Our words are useless unless they come from the bottom of the heart....

 —Mother Teresa

 Everyone hears only what he understands....	— Johann W. Goethe

 Words form the thread on which we string our experiences....

 —Aldous Huxley

 Without knowing the force of words, it is impossible to know men....

 —Confucius

 Words cannot describe one’s spiritual experience....	— Papa Ramdas

 Hold firmly to your word....

 —Maimonides

 Much wisdom often goes with the fewest words....	— Sophocles

 Words are deceptive little devils. Words promise much, yet provide so
little. They often confuse and confine our limits of expression; they
are not where the pulsating rhythm of truth may be found....	—
Shantidasa

 The more words, the more foolishness....	— Judah Lev Mordecai

 Strong and bitter words indicate a weak cause....	— Victor Hugo

 Every word you say has a vibration that brings you what you have and
what you need. So be very careful when you speak a word, because one
word spoken can make and mar the destiny of the being....	— Yogi
Bhajan

 Words are merely the vehicle on which thoughts ride.... — James R.
Adams

 Judge your words before you utter them....	— The Talmud

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Words 	♦?	 4

 Positive words possess power. Words vibrate according to their
character and nature. A negative word depresses, discourages and weakens
us if we use it and dwell upon it....

 —Henry T. Hamblin

 Spiritual experience cannot be described in words. Language is
imperfect....

 —Sivananda

 If man would practice sending forth words of Life, Love, Harmony, Peace
and Perfection, he would in a short time be unable to utter an
inharmonious word....	— Baird Spalding

 Every word carries a vibration that sent out, comes back. A cutting
word destroys what a sweet word heals. One spoken word can make or mar
the destiny of a being. When heart is put into a word, the word
encompasses the totality of love and brings love back. When a word is
without heart, it is cold and empty and will bring back cold and
emptiness....	— Cheryl Canfield

 Gentle words calm tense situations, but harsh words cut like whips....

 —Leland F. Wood

 Words are things, and a small drop of ink, falling like dew upon a
thought, produces that which makes thousands, perhaps millions,
think....

 —George Byron

 Words should be scattered like seed: no matter how small the seed may
be, if it has found favorable ground, it unfolds its strength....	—
Seneca

 Where wisdom is perfect, there the words are few....	— Chinese
proverb

 Kind words produce their own image in men’s souls; and what a
beautiful image it is....	 —Blaise	Pascal

 8 *	Work

 Short words are best....

 —Winston Churchill

 The great man does not think beforehand of his words that they may be
sincere....he simply speaks and does what is right....	— Menicus

 The finest words in the world are only vain sounds, if you cannot
comprehend them....	— Anatole France

 m

  Work 

 N

 o task guarantees to protect usfrom stressful situations, or from

 people with different views....

 —Eknath Easwaran

 Work is the keystone of a perfect life.Work and trust in God....

 —Woodrow Wilson

 It is not what we do that has impor-tance, but rather how well we do
it....

 —A Spiritual Warrior

 If you are called to be a streetsweeper,you should sweep streets even
asMichelangelo painted, or Beethovencomposed music, or Shakespeare
wrotepoetry....	— Martin L. King, Jr.

 Work is not man’s punishment. It is hisreward and his strength, his
glory andhis pleasure....	— George Sand

 When our inner self connects to ourwork and our work to our inner
self,the work knows no limit, for the innerself knows no limit....	—
Matthew Fox

 When I work, I leave my body outsidethe door, the way the Moslems take
offtheir shoes before they enter a

 mosque....	— Pablo Picasso

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Work	*	 4

 Work is the grand cure of all the maladies and miseries that ever beset
mankind....	 —Thomas	Carlyle

 It is not hard work that is dreary; it is superficial work....

 —Edith Hamilton

 All work is empty save when there is love. And when you work with love
you bind yourself to yourself, and to one another, and to God....

 —Kahlil Gibran

 The test of a vocation is the love of the drudgery it involves....

 —Logan P. Smith

 I  would be content with any job, however thankless, in any quarter,
however remote, if I had the chance of making a corner of the desert
blossom and a solitary place glad.... — Lord Tweedsmuir

 It is important to know that words don’t move mountains. Work,
exacting work moves mountains....

 —Danilo Dolci

 It does not matter what your work is on the earth. What does matter is
that you do your work with all your heart and with all your strength and
all your mind....	— White Eagle

 The desire of one man to live on the fruits of another’s labor is the
original sin of the world.... — James O’Brien

 The longest-lived men give the longest hours to work....	— Fred Van
Amburgh

 One of the symptoms of an approaching nervous breakdown is the belief
that one’s work is terribly important....

 —Bertrand Russell

 9  ♦?	 Work

 There is a condition or circumstance that has a greater bearing upon
the happiness of life than any other. What is it?...something to do;
some congenial work. Take away the occupation of all men and what a
wretched world it would be....	— John Burroughs

 The difference between work and play is only a matter of attitude.
Work, fully done, is play....	— Gerald G. May

 Without work all life goes rotten....

 —Albert Camus

 The wise prove, and the foolish confess, by their action, that a life
of employment is the only life worth leading....

 —William Paley

 It is the experience of those who have tried it, that working from a
sense of duty, working for the work’s sake, working as a service,
instead of for a living, or to make money, or in order to hoard up
wealth, brings blessings into the life....	— Henry T. Hamblin

 There is a criterion by which you can ascertain whether or not your
work on earth is over. The criterion is: Are you still alive? If you
are, there is still more work for you to do....	— Shantidasa

 We work to become, not to acquire....

 —Elbert Hubbard

 Work that produces unnecessary consumer junk and weapons of war is
wrong and wasteful. Work that is built upon false needs or unbecoming
appetites is wrong and wasteful. Work that deceives or manipulates, that
exploits or degrades is wrong and wasteful. Work that wounds the
environment or makes the world ugly is wrong and wasteful....

 —Theodore Roszak

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Work	*	5

 The supreme accomplishment is to blur the line between work and
play....

 —Arnold Toynbee

 If you wish to work properly, you should never lose sight of two great
principles: first, a profound respect for the work undertaken, and
second, a complete indifference to its fruits. Thus only can you work
with the proper attitude....	— Brahmananda

 Work is man's greatest function. He is nothing, he can do nothing,
achieve nothing without working....

 — J. M. Cowan

 Employment is nature’s physician, and it is essential to human
happiness....

 —Galen

 Work keeps at bay three great evils: boredom, vice and need....

 —Voltaire

 Work is the true elixir of life. The busiest man is the happiest
man....

 —Theodore Martin

 We can be truly successful only in the work to which we have been
called. The work is not ours, it is God’s, and we are privileged to be
worked through by God....How foolish, then, for anyone to think and
proclaim that he has a certain work to do for God. God may have a
certain work to do through him, that is if he is sufficiently humble,
but that is quite a different thing....

 —Henry T. Hamblin

 When we use our hands effectively, our hearts are most at peace....

 —Akira Yoshizawa

 The secret of being miserable is to have leisure to bother about
whether you are happy or not. The cure for it is occupation....	—
George B. Shaw

  0  ♦?	 Work 

 ?    ——

 Work silently....Work is worship. When there is joy in the work itself,
why do you want the fruit of it? Make work itself worship. That is
possible only when you surrender to God and allow him to work through
you. It means absence of ego-sense... — Papa Ramdas

 To work alone thou hast the right, but never the fruits thereof. Be
thou neither actuated by the fruits of action, nor be thou attached to
inaction....

 — Bhagavad-Gita

 Work, especially good work, becomes easy only when desire has learnt to
discipline itself....	— Rabindranath Tagore

 Occupation is one great source of enjoyment. No man, properly occupied,
was ever miserable....	— Letitia London

 Nothing is more likely to help a person overcome or endure troubles
than the consciousness of having a task in life....

 —Victor Frankl

 Have thy tools ready; God will find thee work....	— Charles Kingsley

 Divide your tasks into three categories: essential, important and
trivial, and forget about the trivial....

 —Donald Tubesing

 The more you advance toward God, the less He will give you worldly
duties to perform....	— Ramakrishna

 If I had five hours to chop down a tree, I’d spend the first four
hours sharpening the axe....	— Abraham Lincoln

 Work is love made visible....

 —Kahlil Gibran

 A vision without work is but a dream; a work without a vision is
drudgery, alas; a vision and a work is the hope of the world....	—
Anonymous

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Work 	 ♦? 	 5

 Work and love—these are the basics. Without them there is
neurosis....

 —Theodore Reik

 The sum of wisdom is that the time is never lost that is devoted to
work....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

 Hard work doesn’t give people heart attacks. Hard work itself can be
good for you....	— Dean Ornish

 Men seldom die of hard work; activity is God’s medicine....

 —Robert S. MacArthur

 There is no honest and true work, carried along with constant and
sincere purpose that ever really fails....

 —William G. Jordan

 The Masterword which is the ‘Open Sesame’ to every portal....the
true philosopher’s stone....is work....

 —William Osier

 Work of your own free will, not from duty. We have no duty. The world
is just a gymnasium in which we play; our life is an eternal holiday....

 —Vivekananda

 One of the most durable satisfactions in life is to lose one’s self
in one’s work....

 —Harry E. Fosdick

 God intends no man to live in this world without working; but it seems
to me no less evident that He intends every man to be happy in his
work....

 —John Ruskin

 Everyone has been made for some particular work, and the desire for
that work has been put into his heart....

 —Rumi

 I have found no secret of success but hard work....	— Edward Turner

 1 *	Work

 Excellence is never granted to man but as the reward of labor....

 —Joshua Reynolds

 Without labor nothing prospers....

 —Sophocles

 True happiness comes to him who does his work well....True happiness
comes from the right amount of work for the day....	— Lin Yutang

 We have too many people who live without working, and we have
altogether too many who work without living....

 —Charles R. Brown

 In work, do what you enjoy....

 — Lao-tzu

 I can think of no greater hardship, no greater rebuke, than having
nothing to do....	— Fred Van Amburgh

 Idleness and lack of occupation are the best things in the world to
ruin the foolish....	— John Chrysostom

 What is our work? Our only work here is to seek God, or do such work
that will enable us to realize God....

 —Papa Ramdas

 Thank God every morning when you get up that you have something to do
which must be done, whether you like it or not....	— Charles Kingsley

 It doesn’t matter what you do—as long as you do it with love....

 —Mother Teresa

 The mintage of wisdom is to know that rest is rust, and that real life
is love, laughter and work....

 —Elbert Hubbard

 Every calling is great when greatly pursued....	— Oliver W. Holmes

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Work	*	502	*	Work

   •**>!• 	

 Whatever your occupation while in your physical body, remember it is a
form of service. However humble or even humdrum your work may be to you,
it is your special appointment, and through your work on earth you can
make your contribution to the happiness of all....	— White Eagle

 Happiness, I have discovered, is nearly always a rebound of hard
work....

 —David Grayson

 If people knew how hard I work to get my mastery, it would not seem so
marvelous after all....	— Michelangelo

 Blessed is he who has found his work; let him ask no other blessedness.
He has a work, a life-purpose; he has found it, and it will follow
him....

 —Thomas Carlyle

 If you choose a job that you like you will never have to work a day in
your life....	— Confucius

 The reward for work well done is the opportunity to do more....

 —Jonas Salh

 Few persons realize how much of their happiness is dependent upon their
work, upon the fact that they are busy and not left to feed upon them-
selves....Blessed is the man who has some congenial work, some
occupation in which he can put his heart, and which affords a complete
outlet to all the forces that are in him....

 —John Burroughs

 While the unwise work for the fruit of their actions, the wise offer
all results of their actions to Me....	— Bhagavad-Gita

 If you work at what you love to do you can’t help but have love
flowing through you....	— Shantidasa

 Your job in the scheme of things is unique and designed especially for
you. Your job is something you will be happy doing....You can begin to
do your job in life by doing all the good things you feel motivated
toward, even though they are just little things....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 The occupation you choose in life must be the thing you love to do-the
thing you can put your whole being into. Never engage in anything as a
permanent activity, or a life-work that you do not love with the
fullness of your love....	— James B. Schafer

 Only the work that is impersonal can live; the works of the self are
both powerless and perishable. Where duties, howsoever humble, are done
without self-interest, and with joyful sacrifice, there is true service
and enduring work. Where deeds, however brilliant and apparently
successful, are done from love of self, there is ignorance of the Law of
Service, and the work perishes....	— James Allen

 In our time a secret manifesto is being written. It is the longing to
know our authentic vocation in the world, to find the work and the way
of being that belongs to each of us....

 —Theodore Roszak

 The majority work to make a living; some work to acquire wealth or
fame, while a few work because there is something within them which
demands expression....Only a few truly love it....	— Edmund B. Szekely

 Work and thou canst not escape the reward....The reward of a thing well
done is to have done it....

 —Ralph W. Emerson

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Work 	♦?	 503	*	Worry

 Each individual soul is destined to fulfill some mission on this earth
plane, his life being patterned according to his stage of evolution. The
path that he must travel in order to fulfill his duties will be
burdensome or free from pain and worry in the degree that the individual
understands and obeys the laws of his being....	— Thurman Fleet

 No man is born into the world whose work is not born with him....

 —James Russell Lowell

 You have come into the world to work. You must always be eager to work.
The one who is idle is like a dead man. You have come to this world to
live, not to die....	— Babaji

 The fruit derived from labor is the sweetest of all pleasure....

 —Luc de Clapiers Vauvenargues

 Each of us has something within us that needs to be expressed. It may
be the desire to play an instrument, paint landscapes, climb mountains,
or grow prize-winning chrysanthemums. Whatever that desire is, it comes
from our heart and reflects our own unique gifts and abilities....	—
G. Jean Anderson

 The labor of the body relieves us from the fatigues of the mind; and it
is that which forms the happiness of the poor....	— Francois La
Rochefoucauld

 Work is not always required of man. There is such a thing as sacred
idleness....	— George Macdonald

 It is the ambition of many to live without working. What they desire is
a parasitic life, in which they take everything, but give nothing in
return. This is against the principle of Life, and those who try to act
in this manner bring a blight upon themselves....

 —Henry T. Hamblin

 The man who does not work for thelove of work but only for the money
isnot likely to make money nor to findmuch fun in life....

 —Charles M. Schwab

 There is plenty of advancement in anywork! Whether you are shining
shoesor administering laws, or what!...

 —Edgar Cayce

 God sells us all things at the price oflabor....	— Leonardo da Vinci

 To live in the world or to leave itdepends on the will of God.
Therefore,work, leaving everything to Him. Whatelse can you do?...	—
Ramakrishna

 If our work is not truly beneficial, it isbest to cease. Cause and
effect works inthe physical realms, but also in ourown lives....	—
Sevakram

 Do your work in the world, but inward-ly keep quiet. Then all will come
to you.Do not rely on your own work for real-ization. It may profit
others but notyou. Your hope lies in keeping silent inyour mind and
quiet in your heart.

 —Nisargadatta

 &

  Worry 

 orry is a useless mulling overof things we cannot change.

 Worry is not concern, which wouldmotivate you to do everything
possiblein a situation....	— Peace Pilgrim

 Worry is seldom necessary....Worry sprinkles salt in the wound and sand
in your mental machinery....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 Worry is spiritual short sight. Its cure is intelligent faith....	—
Paul Brunton

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Worry	*	504

 	 me 	-

 When we are upset, about 90 percent of the upset is related to our past
and has nothing to do with what we think is upsetting us....	 —John
Gray

 Worry kills a man. It destroys his hope of life. It is a canker or
cancer that slowly eats away at man. It wears you out. Do not worry over
the past....Do not worry about things which are likely to happen; so
often they really do not....

 —Sivananda

 Mental problems feed on the attention you give them. The more you worry
about them, the stronger they become. If you ignore them, they lose
their power and finally vanish....

 —Annamalai Swami

 Worry is a state of mind based on fear....	 —Napoleon Hill

 Worry is the interest which we pay on trouble before it comes, and we
attract trouble every time we worry about it....

 —Albert E. Cliffe

 The reason why worry kills more people than work is that more people
worry than work....	 —Robert Frost

 Worry is an infirmity; there is no virtue in it. Worry is spiritual
nearsightedness; a fumbling way of looking at little things and
magnifying their value....

 —Anna Brown Lindsay

 We can always get along better by reason and love of truth than by
worry of conscience and remorse....

 —Baruch Spinoza

 Happy is the man who has broken the chains which hurt the mind, and has
given up worrying once and for all....

 —Ovid

 The sovereign cure for worry is prayer....	 —William James

  Worry 

 Worry is responsible for more disease than all the germs that exist on
the face of the earth....	 —Thurman Fleet

 The art of resting the mind and the power of dismissing from it all
care and worry is probably one of the secrets of energy in our great
men....

 — J. Hadfield

 Any negative state, like worry, is like your shadow. If you run away,
it pursues, but by standing still you see that it has no movement except
that which you give it by running away....

 —Vernon Howard

 The worst thing you can possibly do is worrying and thinking about what
you could have done....

 —Georg C. Lichtenberg

 There is nothing that wastes the body like worry, and one who has any
faith in God should be ashamed to worry about anything whatsoever....

 —Mohandas Gandhi

 There are two days of the week upon which and about which I never
worry- two carefree days kept sacredly free from fear and apprehension.
One of these days is yesterday....And the other day....is tomorrow....

 —Robert J. Burdette

 The more we worry—the more we have something to worry about....

 —Tom Seeley

 Worry is like a microscope. It makes every little misery look huge. We
can use a telescope, and see far away into life. We shall see much, but
worry we shall hardly notice. We shall find it so small....	 —Nicholas
Rodney

 What, me worry?...

 —Alfred E. Newman

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Worry 	♦?	 505	*	Worry

 	 1SJV 	

 Worries cannot be willed away by consciously refusing to acknowledge
them—they must be pulled up by the roots and examined in the light,
not pushed deeper into the unconscious where they only do darker
mischief by disguising themselves in some bizarre manner....	— Sydney
J. Harris

 Some of your grief you have cured, and the sharpest you have survived;
but what torments of pain you endured from evil that never arrived....

 —French proverb

 We abuse our bodies and fill our minds with mental pictures of fear and
worry and then find it difficult to understand why we have suffered from
a nervous breakdown....	— Harold Sherman

 Worry is the cause of most of the distempers of the mind and the body.
Remove worry by steadfast faith in the constant thought of God....

 —Papa Ramdas

 The more we worry, the more we hurry and the man in a hurry has reason
to worry—a vicious circle....

 —Fred Van Amburgh

 It is not work that kills man; it is worry. Work is healthy and you can
hardly put more upon a man than he can bear; but worry is the rust upon
the blade....

 —Henry W. Beecher

 Activity is a great antidote for sitting around and worrying....

 —Margo Howard

 I am an old man and have had many troubles, most of which never
happened....	— Mark Twain

 We little realize the number of human diseases that are begun or are
affected by worry....	— Walter C. Alvarez

 Worry brings fear and fear is crippling....Know that there is a power
greater than yourself within you, orchestrating your every encounter and
guiding you in the right direction....

 —Susan Smith Jones

 Worry is a thin stream of fear trickling through the mind. If
encouraged, it cuts a channel into which all other thoughts are
drained....

 —Arthur S. Roche

 When you worry about the problems of tomorrow, you are creating
unhappiness for yourself today....

 —Shantidasa

 If, instead of worrying over our own misfortunes, we think ourselves
more fortunate than many, many others, we are loving God....	— Meher
Baba

 Worry affects the circulation, the heart, the glands, the whole nervous
system....

 —Charles Mayo

 To tremble before anticipated evils, is to bemoan what thou hast never
lost....

 —Johann W. Goethe

 Worry is a word that I don’t allow myself to use....

 —Dwight D. Eisenhower

 Worry never robs tomorrow of its sorrow; it only saps today of its
strength....

 — A. J. Cronin

 There is no use worrying about things over which you have no control,
and if you have control, you can do something about it instead of
worrying....

 —Stanley C. Allyn

 Worry never righted a wrong, dried a tear or lifted a burden. On the
contrary, it has slain tens of thousands....

 —Alfred A. Montapert

     shapeType 32  lineWidth 12065   Worry 	 ♦? 	 5

 Nothing is so wretched or foolish as to anticipate misfortunes. What
madness is it to be expecting evil before it comes....	— Seneca

 Do not worry about tomorrow; it will have enough worries of its own.
There is no need to add to the troubles each day brings....	— Jesus

 There is no annoyance so great as the annoyance which is composed of
many trifling, but continuous worries....

 —Francis de Sales

 Don’t take tomorrow to bed with you....

 —Norman V. Peale

 Inability to tell good from evil is the greatest worry of man’s
life....

 —Cicero

 Faith means not worrying....

 —John Dewey

 Don’t worry about tomorrow: who knows what may befall you this
day....

 —The Talmud

 To worry continually is the most efficient prayer for getting what you
don’t want....	— Shantidasa

 Worry is worship to the wrong god....

 —Jack Exum

 Worries do not belong to you. It is your own fault if you assume that
they are yours....	— Ramana Maharshi

 Worry throws “faith in God” out the window....	— Anonymous

 One who has abandoned everything is not agitated by worry: if wind can
sway the branches of a tree, it cannot be called movable.... — Yoga
Vasistha

 6  ♦?	 Worry

 How often are you worrying about the present moment? The present moment
is usually all right. If you’re worrying, you’re either agonizing
over the past which you should have forgotten long ago, or else you’re
apprehensive over the future which hasn’t even come yet. We tend to
skip over the present moment which is the only moment God gives any of
us to live....

 —Peace Pilgrim

 There is nothing to worry about. It is all God and His play. Clouds
sweep over the sky: they appear and disappear; but the sky remains
unaffected. So also the things of the world—its sorrows and its
joys—they come and go: but we are eternal Changeless Existence, full
of peace and bliss. We are the witness of a gigantic cinema show.... —
Papa Ramdas

