---
Source:
  ID: 20c3721c-2af4-449e-a9c0-9791ceb9b9ae
  Locus:
    Page: 178-179
Tags:
  - Sacrifice-Death=Volition, Obedience and Conformity=Intention
  - 296
  - 873
  - 790
  - 139
  - 62
  - 841
By: Eckhart
---
For people are by no means all called upon to follow the same route to
God, as St Paul points out. Supposing then thou findest that thy best
course does not lie in great bodily activity and strenuous work nor in
privations, things after all of little worth unless a man is specially
driven thereto by God and is strong enough to stand them without
disturbing his interior life, in this case be at peace and think no
more about it.  Thou wilt say. perhaps. ‘If it is no great matter, why
have our forbears done these things and numbers of the saints?’
Remember, our Lord has given them this way and he gave them too the
strength for it, so they were able to pursue that way and him, what
fell from him. That was the best for them, but God has not bound up
man’s salvation with any given way. What one way has, what
possibilities, with these God has furnished all good ways without
exception. ... What you get in one way may be got in any other
provided it is sound and good and God is the only thing in view, nor
are all men able to travel the same road. ... Thou shalt sometimes
find it harder to keep back a single word than not to speak at all.
Just as it is sometimes harder to brook some idle taunt than to bear a
heavy blow, and more difficult to be alone in company than in the
desert; and the giving up of some trifling thing will frequently cost
more than something big, and doing some small action more than one
accounted fine. So a man can quite well follow our Lord by way of his
own weakness, and need not, must not, think him far away.
