---
By: Zhuangzi
Source:
  ID: 50ae0a98-5702-40cb-8c11-4c6297aa457a
  Locus:
    Chapter: 15
    Paragraph: 1
  Title: The Complete Works of Chuang Tzu
  Translator: Burton Watson
Title: Constrained In Will
---
TO BE CONSTRAINED IN WILL, lofty in action, aloof from the world, apart
from its customs, elevated in discourse, sullen and critical,
indignation his whole concern - such is the life favored by the scholar
in his mountain valley, the man who condemns the world, the worn and
haggard one who means to end it all with a plunge into the deep. To
discourse on benevolence, righteousness, loyalty, and good faith, to be
courteous, temperate, modest, and deferential, moral training his whole
concern - such is the life favored by the scholar who seeks to bring
the world to order, the man who teaches and instructs, who at home and
abroad lives for learning. To talk of great accomplishments, win a
great name, define the etiquette of ruler and subject, regulate the
position of superior and inferior, the ordering of the state his only
concern - such is the life favored by the scholar of court and council,
the man who would honor his sovereign and strengthen his country, the
bringer of accomplishment, the annexer of territory. To repair to the
thickets and ponds, living idly in the wilderness, angling for fish in
solitary places, inaction his only concern - such is the life favored
by the scholar of the rivers and seas, the man who withdraws from the
world, the unhurried idler. To pant, to puff, to hail, to sip, to spit
out
