---
By: Zhuangzi
Source:
  ID: 50ae0a98-5702-40cb-8c11-4c6297aa457a
  Locus:
    Chapter: 4
    Paragraph: 26
  Title: The Complete Works of Chuang Tzu
  Translator: Burton Watson
Title: In The World Of Men
---
Tzu-kao, duke of She, who was being sent on a mission to Ch'i,
consulted Confucius. "The king is sending me on a very important
mission. Ch'i will probably treat me with great honor but will be in no
hurry to do anything more. Even a commoner cannot be forced to act,
much less one of the feudal lords. I am very worried about it. You once
said to me, 'In all affairs, whether large or small, there are few men
who reach a happy conclusion except through the Way. If you do not
succeed, you are bound to suffer from the judgment of men. If you do
succeed, you are bound to suffer from the yin and yang. To suffer no
harm whether you succeed or not - only the man who has virtue can do
that.' I am a man who eats plain food that is simply cooked, so that no
one ever complains of the heat in my kitchens. Yet this morning I
received my orders from the king and by evening I am gulping ice water
- do you suppose I have developed some kind of internal fever? I have
not even gone to Ch'i to see what the situation is like and already I
am suffering from the yin and yang. And if I do not succeed, I am bound
to suffer from the judgment of men. I will have both worries. As a
minister, I am not capable of carrying out this mission. But perhaps
you have some advice you can give me . . ."
