---
Source:
  Title: The Complete Works of Chuang Tzu
  ID: 50ae0a98-5702-40cb-8c11-4c6297aa457a
  Translator: Burton Watson
By: Zhuangzi
Locus:
  Chapter: 14
  Paragraph: 10
Title: The Turning Of Heaven
---
\"No, no," said Chuang Tzu. "Perfect benevolence is a lofty thing -
words like filial piety would never do to describe it. And what you are
talking about is not something that surpasses filial piety, but
something that doesn't even come up to it. If a traveler to the south
turns to look north again when he reaches the city of Ying, he will no
longer see the dark northern mountains. Why? Because they are too far
away. Thus it is said, to be filial out of respect is easy; to be
filial out of love is hard. To be filial out of love is easy; to forget
parents is hard. To forget parents is easy; to make parents forget you
is hard. To make parents forget you is easy; to forget the whole world
is hard. To forget the whole world is easy; to make the whole world
forget you is hard. Virtue discards Yao and Shun and rests in inaction.
Its bounty enriches ten thousand ages, and yet no one in the world
knows this. Why all these deep sighs, this talk of benevolence and
filial piety? Filial piety, brotherliness, benevolence, righteousness,
loyalty, trust, honor, integrity - for all of these you must drive
yourself and make a slave of Virtue. They are not worth prizing. So it
is said, Highest eminence scorns the titles of the kingdom; greatest
wealth rejects the riches of the kingdom; loftiest desire ignores fame
and reputation. It is the Way alone that never varies."
