---
Source:
  ID: 503bbcad-73dd-49e6-96a0-bde44020aeb4
  Title: The Man of Many Qualities
  By: R. G. H. Siu
  Locus:
    Hexagram: 16 - ䷏ - Yu
    Description: Judgement
    Page: 118
By: Niccolo Machiavelli
---
Here the question arises whether it is better to be loved than feared or
feared than loved, The answer is that it would be desirable to be both but,
since that is difficult, it is much safer to be feared than to be loved,
if one must choose, For on men in general this observation may be made：
they are ungrateful, fickle, and deceitful, eager to avoid dangers, and
avid for gain, and while you are useful to them they are all with you,
offering you their blood, their property, their lives, and their sons
so long as danger is remote, as we noted above, but when it approaches
they turn on you, Any prince, trusting only in their words and having no
other preparations made, will fall to his ruin, for friendships that are
bought at a price and not by greatness and nobility of soul are paid for
indeed, but they are not owned and cannot be called upon in time of need,
Men have less hesitation in offending a man who is loved than one who is
feared, for love is held by a bond of obligation which as men are wicked,
is broken whenever personal advantage suggests it, but fear is accompanied
by the dread of punishment which never relaxes.

Yet a prince should make himself feared in such a way that, if he does not
thereby merit love, at least he may escape odium, for being feared and not
hated may well go together, And indeed the prince may attain this end if
he but respect the property and the women of his subjects and citizens,
And if it should become necessary to seek the death of someone, he should
find a proper justification and a public cause, and above all he should
keep his hands off another's property, for they forget more readily the
death of their father than the loss of their patrimony.
