---
Source:
  ID: 20c3721c-2af4-449e-a9c0-9791ceb9b9ae
  Location:
    Page: 619
Tags:
  - Life-Love=Love=God's Love for Us
  - 745
  - 868
  - 614
By: Ruysbroeck
---
In this storm of love two spirits strive together： the spirit of God and our
own spirit.  God, through the Holy Ghost, inclines Himself towards us; and,
thereby, we are touched in love. And our spirit, by God’s working and by the
power of love, presses and inclines itself into God; and, thereby, God is
touched. From these two contacts there arises the strife of love, at the very
deeps of this meeting; and in that most inward and ardent encounter, each
spirit is deeply wounded by love. These two spirits, that is, our own spirit
and the Spirit of God, sparkle and shine one into the other, and each shows to
the other its face. This makes each of the spirits yearn for the other in love.
Each demands of the other all that it is; and each offers to the other all that
it is and invites it to all that it is. This makes the lovers melt into each
other. God’s touch and His gifts, our loving craving and our giving back; these
fulfil love. This flux and reflux causes the fountain of love to brim over; and
thus the touch of God and our loving craving become one simple love. Here man
is possessed by love, so that he must forget himself and God, and knows and can
do nothing but love. Thereby the spirit is burned up in the fire of love, and
enters so deeply into the touch of God, that it is overcome in all its
cravings, and turned to nought in all its works, and empties itself; above all
surrender becoming very love. And it possesses, above all virtues, the inmost
part of its created being, where every creaturely work begins and ends. Such is
love in itself, foundation and origin of all virtues.
