---
Source:
  Title: The Complete Works of Chuang Tzu
  ID: 50ae0a98-5702-40cb-8c11-4c6297aa457a
  Translator: Burton Watson
By: Zhuangzi
Locus:
  Chapter: 14
  Paragraph: 43
Title: The Turning Of Heaven
---
Lao Tan said, "Young man, come a little closer and I will tell you how
the Three August Ones and the Five Emperors ruled the world. In ancient
times the Yellow Emperor ruled the world by making the hearts of the
people one. Therefore, if there were those among the people who did not
wail at the death of their parents, the people saw nothing wrong in
this. Yao ruled the world by making the hearts of the people
affectionate. Therefore, if there were those among the people who
decided to mourn for longer or shorter periods according to the degree
of kinship of the deceased, the people saw nothing wrong in this. Shun
ruled the world by making the hearts of the people rivalrous. Therefore
the wives of the people became pregnant and gave birth in the tenth
month as in the past, but their children were not five months old
before they were able to talk, and their baby laughter had hardly rung
out before they had begun to distinguish one person from another. It
was then that premature death first appeared. Yu ruled the world by
causing the hearts of the people to change. It was assumed that each
man had a heart of his own, that recourse to arms was quite all right.
Killing a thief is not a case of murder, they said; every man in the
world should look out for his own kind. As a result, there was great
consternation in the world, and the Confucians and Mo-ists all came
forward, creating for the first time the rules of ethical behavior. But
what would they say of those men who nowadays make wives of their
daughters?
