---
Source:
  ID: 20c3721c-2af4-449e-a9c0-9791ceb9b9ae
  Locus:
    Page: 394
Tags:
  - Combat-Action=Holy War=Injunction to Holy War
  - Combat-Action=Judgement=On Judging Others
By: St Augustine
---
\‘If one strike thee on thy right cheek, turn to him also the other’
(Matt, v, 39) That these precepts pertain rather to the inward
disposition of the heart than to the actions which are done in the
sight of men, requiring us to cherish patience along with benevolence
in the inmost heart, but in the outward action to do that which seems
most likely to benefit those whose good we ought to seek, is manifest
from the fact that the Lord Jesus Himself, the perfect example of
patience, when He was struck in the face, answered： ‘If I have spoken
evil, give testimony of the evil： but if well, why strikest thou me?’
(John xviii, 23). If we look only at the words. He did not in this
obey His own precept, for He did not turn another part of His face to
him who had struck Him, but on the contrary prevented him who had done
the wrong from adding thereto. ...

Many things must be done in correcting with a certain benevolent
severity, even against their own wishes, men whose welfare rather than
their wishes it is our duty to consult___ If the Christian teaching
condemned wars of every kind, the injunction given in the Gospel to
the soldiers seeking counsel as to salvation, would rather be to cast
away their arms and withdraw themselves wholly from military service,
whereas what was said to them was： ‘Do violence to no man, neither
calumniate any man; and be content with your pay’ (Luke iii, 14). The
command to be content with their pay in no way implies prohibition to
continue in military service.
