---
Source:
  Title: The Complete Works of Chuang Tzu
  ID: 50ae0a98-5702-40cb-8c11-4c6297aa457a
  Translator: Burton Watson
By: Zhuangzi
Locus:
  Chapter: 10
  Paragraph: 2
Title: Rifling Trunks
---
Let me try explaining what I mean. What the ordinary world calls a wise
man is in fact someone who piles things up for the benefit of a great
thief, is he not? And what it calls a sage is in fact someone who
stands guard for the benefit of a great thief, is he not? How do I know
this is so? In times past there was the state of Ch'i, its neighboring
towns within sight of each other, the cries of their dogs and chickens
within hearing of each other. The area where its nets and seines were
spread, where its plows and spades dug the earth, measured over two
thousand li square, filling all the space within its four borders. And
in the way its ancestral temples and its altars of the soil and grain
were set up, its towns and villages and hamlets were governed, was
there anything that did not accord with the laws of the sages? Yet one
morning Viscount T'ien Ch'eng murdered the ruler of Ch'i and stole his
state. And was it only the state he stole? Along with it he also stole
the laws which the wisdom of the sages had devised. Thus, although
Viscount T'ien Ch'eng gained the name of thief and bandit, he was able
to rest as peacefully as a Yao or a Shun. The smaller states did not
dare condemn him, the larger states did not dare to attack, and for
twelve generations his family held possession of the state of Ch'i. Is
this not a case in which a man, stealing the state of Ch'i, along with
it stole the laws of the sages' wisdom and used them to guard the
person of a thief and a bandit?
