---
Source:
  ID: 20c3721c-2af4-449e-a9c0-9791ceb9b9ae
  Location:
    Page: 802
Tags:
  - 790
By: Abbot Mingzing
---
We do not look for gulfs when we compare religions, rather we try to find
similarities and unity. This is the essential difference between the Chinese
and Western view points.  We firmly believe in the truism that all faiths are
the paths leading towards the Ultimate Reality, just as the spokes of the wheel
converge to its axis. When the people are too immersed in the dogmas and
rituals of their chosen religion, it appears to them to be the only one worth
following and they defend their own particular faith. However, when they have
acquired enough wisdom, charity and discernment, they too are bound to perceive
that the road to Heaven is nobodyâ€™s monopoly and that the divine laws apply
equally to all.  It is the dogmas, ritual and the mode of worship that divide
the faiths and not the basic essence of their beliefs.

But I am not in favour of conversion from one faith to another, neither do I
believe in the fusion of all religions into one. The Ultimate Truth is one, but
it has an infinite number of aspects and what is more beautiful than that each
faith should reflect only one facet of the Divine, all of them together
creating a shining gem of beauty. Would the world be more beautiful if all the
flowers on earth had been blended into one uniform colour or all mountains
razed to make the globe monotonously flat? Each religion offers something
glorious, peculiarly its own, to point out the road to the Ultimate Reality.
What man or group of men would be able to prescribe a single form of religion
that would satisfy all and everybody? That would be an attempt to give a finite
concept of the Infinite and, of course, it would fail.
