---
Source:
  ID: 20c3721c-2af4-449e-a9c0-9791ceb9b9ae
  Locus:
    Page: 278-279
Tags:
  - Combat-Action=Orthodoxy-Ritual-Method=The Chain of Transmission
  - 313
  - 418
By: Peter Sterry
---
The Rules which I have desired to govern my self by in this Discourse,
are these, Right Reason, the universally acknowledged Principles of
all sober Philosophy and sound Divinity, the Analogy of Faith, the
Letter of the Scriptures, the Spirit of Christ, in the Head of the
Church Christ himself, in the Scriptures, in the Church, in the
Spirits, and experiences of each Saint. As all these answer each other
in a mutual Harmony, like the several strings upon a well-tuned Luteï¼š
So shall I ever (as I humbly believe) take it for granted, That
whatever jars upon any of these strings, is also out of tune to all
the rest.  That whatever is not conformable to any one of these Rules,
crosseth them all. If any thing of this kind shall have fain from me.
I do here humbly repent of it, and recant it. I humbly desire all
those, who shall stoop to read what I have written, to believe that no
Gift can be so acceptable to me. as the displacing of any Errour or
Falshood in my Mind, with the gentle hand of Love, by bringing in the
Truth which it hath counterfeited and vailed. If any Errour have
seemed sweet, beautiful, or desirable to me, in any kind. I humbly
undertake to have a confident assurance of this. That the Truth it
self shining forth, will bring along with it far more transcendent
Sweetnesses, Beauties, Agreeablenesses and Satisfactions to all my
Desires, excelling it in all the impressions of a Divine Pleasantness.
Power and Profit, as the true Sun doth a Parelius, or a counterfeit
Image of the Sun in a Cloud.
