---
By: Zhuangzi
Source:
  ID: 50ae0a98-5702-40cb-8c11-4c6297aa457a
  Locus:
    Chapter: 11
    Paragraph: 5
  Title: The Complete Works of Chuang Tzu
  Translator: Burton Watson
Title: Let It Be, Leave It Alone
---
Do men delight in what they see? - they are corrupted by colors. Do
they delight in what they hear? - they are corrupted by sounds. Do they
delight in benevolence? - they bring confusion to Virtue. Do they
delight in righteousness? - they turn their backs on reason. Do they
delight in rites? - they are aiding artificiality. Do they delight in
music? - they are aiding dissolution. Do they delight in sageness? -
they are assisting artifice. Do they delight in knowledge? - they are
assisting the fault-finders. As long as the world rests in the true
form of its inborn nature and fate, it makes no difference whether
these eight delights exist or not. But if the world does not rest in
the true form of its nature and fate, then these eight delights will
begin to grow warped and crooked, jumbled and deranged, and will bring
confusion to the world. And if on top of that the world begins to honor
them and cherish them, then the delusion of the world will be great
indeed! You say these are only a fancy that will pass in time? Yet men
prepare themselves with fasts and austerities when they come to
describe them, kneel solemnly on their mats when they recommend them,
beat drums and sing to set them forth in .dance. What's to be done
about it I'm sure I don't know!
