---
Source:
  ID: 20c3721c-2af4-449e-a9c0-9791ceb9b9ae
  Locus:
    Page: 294
Tags:
  - Combat-Action=Orthodoxy-Ritual-Method=The Spiritual Master
  - 773
  - 275
  - 300
By: Palladius
Commentary: |
  There are people ready to invent anything as an excuse for a teacher,
  even including an imagined contact with some dead person supposed to
  be in paradise, or the idea of an infallible voice that guides from
  within. But the doctrine as expounded in this chapter is unequivocalï¼š
  there is no spiritual master outside of the orthodox channels, and no
  amount of self-interested rationalizing can bring one into being.
---
For there is One alone Who hath no need of doctrine (or learning) that
is to say, God, Who is over everything, for He existeth of Himself,
and there is no other being who existed before Him. Now all rational
beings are learners, because they are beings who have been made and
created. The ranks of the celestial hosts who existed first of all,
and the orders of beings who are the most exalted of all possess
teachers in the Trinity, Who is exalted above everything. The orders
of beings of the second group learn from the beings of the first
group, and those which belong to the third group learn from those of
the second group, which is above them, and in this manner each of the
later groups learneth from that which is above it, even down to the
lowest group of all; for those among them who are superior in respect
of knowledge and excellence teach knowledge unto those who are
inferior to them.  Therefore those who imagine that they have no need
of teachers, and who will not be convinced by those who teach them
things of good, are sick with the want of the knowledge which is the
mother and the producer of pride. Now those who are princes and the
foremost ones among these in respect of destruction are those who
intentionally (or wilfully) fell from sojourning in heaven, and from
the service thereof, and these are the devils who fly in the air
because they forsook the heavenly Teacher and rebelled.
