---
Source:
  Title: The Complete Works of Chuang Tzu
  ID: 50ae0a98-5702-40cb-8c11-4c6297aa457a
  Translator: Burton Watson
By: Zhuangzi
Locus:
  Chapter: 10
  Paragraph: 8
Title: Rifling Trunks
---
But until the sage is dead, great thieves will never cease to appear,
and if you pile on more sages in hopes of bringing the world to order,
you will only be piling up more profit for Robber Chih. Fashion pecks
and bushels for people to measure by and they will steal by peck and
bushel. Fashion scales and balances for people to weigh by and they
will steal by scale and balance. Fashion tallies and seals to insure
trustworthiness and people will steal with tallies and seals. Fashion
benevolence and righteousness to reform people and they will steal with
benevolence and righteousness. How do I know this is so? He who steals
a belt buckle pays with his life; he who steals a state gets to be a
feudal lord-and we all know that benevolence and righteousness are to
be found at the gates of the feudal lords. Is this not a case of
stealing benevolence and righteousness and the wisdom of the sages? So
men go racing in the footsteps of the great thieves, aiming for the
rank of feudal lord, stealing benevolence and righteousness, and taking
for themselves all the profits of peck and bushel, scale and balance,
tally and seal. Though you try to lure them aside with rewards of
official carriages and caps of state, you cannot move them; though you
threaten them with the executioner's ax, you cannot deter them. This
piling up of profits for Robber Chih to the point where nothing can
deter him - this is all the fault of the sage!
