---
Source:
  ID: 503bbcad-73dd-49e6-96a0-bde44020aeb4
  Title: The Man of Many Qualities
  By: R. G. H. Siu
  Locus:
    Hexagram: "6 - ䷅  - Sung"
    Line: 1
    Page: 46
By: Martin Luther
---
A prince must also be very wise and not at all times undertake to enforce
his own will, although he may have the authority and the very best cause. For
it is a far nobler virtue to endure wrong to one’s authority than to risk
property and person, if it is advantageous to the subjects; since worldly
rights attach only to temporal goods.

Hence, it is a very foolish saying： I have a right to it, therefore I
will take it by storm and keep it, although all sorts of misfortune may
come to others thereby. So we read of the Emperor Octavianus, that he did
not wish to make war, however just his cause might be, unless there were
sure indications of greater benefit than harm, or at least that the harm
would not be intolerable, and said： “War is like fishing with a golden
net; the loss risked is always greater than the catch can be.” For he who
guides a wagon must walk farther otherwise than if he were walking alone;
when alone he may walk, jump, and do as he will; but when he drives, he
must so guide and adapt himself that the wagon and horses can follow him,
and regard that more than his own will. So also a prince leads a multitude
with him and must not walk or act as he wills, but as the multitude can,
considering their need and advantages more than his will and pleasure. For
when a prince rules after his own mad will and follows his own opinion,
he is like a mad driver, who rushes straight ahead with horse and wagon,
through bushes, thorns, ditches, water, up hill and down dale, regardless
of roads and bridges; he will not drive long, all will go to smash.
