---
Source:
  ID: 937adfe1-da1a-4496-82c5-8061167c097c
  Locus:
    Chapter: XVIII
    Page: 49
Title: How that yet unto this day all actives complain of contemplatives
  as Martha did of Mary. Of the which complaining ignorance is the cause
---
And right as Martha complained then on Mary her sister, right so yet unto
this day all actives complain of contemplatives. For an there be a man or
a woman in any company of this world, what company soever it be, religious
or seculars -- I out-take none -- the which man or woman, whichever that it
be, feeleth him stirred through grace and by counsel to forsake all outward
business, and for to set him fully for to live contemplative life after
their cunning and their conscience, their counsel according; as fast, their
own brethren and their sisters, and all their next friends, with many other
that know not their stirrings nor that manner of living that they set them
to, with a great complaining spirit shall rise upon them, and say sharply
unto them that it is nought that they do. And as fast they will reckon up
many false tales, and many true also, of falling of men and women that have
given them to such life before： and never a good tale of them that stood.

I grant that many fall and have fallen of them that have in likeness
forsaken the world. And where they should have become God’s servants and
His contemplatives, because that they would not rule them by true ghostly
counsel they have become the devil’s servants and his contemplatives;
and turned either to hypocrites or to heretics, or fallen into frenzies and
many other mischiefs, in slander of Holy Church. Of the which I leave to
speak at this time, for troubling of our matter. But nevertheless here after
when God vouchsafeth and if need be, men may see some of the conditions and
the cause of their failings. And therefore no more of them at this time;
but forth of our matter.
