---
Source:
  ID: 20c3721c-2af4-449e-a9c0-9791ceb9b9ae
  Locus:
    Page: 268-269
Tags:
  - Combat-Action=Judgement=Judgment Day
  - Combat-Action=Judgement=On Judging Others
  - Combat-Action=Metanoia='Duo Sunt in Homine'
By: Eckhart
---
Touching the last day, people say, God shall judge. So he shall, but
not as they think.  Each man is his own judge in this sense： the
state he then appears in he is in eternally. ...  Those souls who all
their days have spent their time in God till God has come to be their
being, to them God stays their being. ... Not so the wicked who have
squandered their time on creatures; what their state is it continues
to be, and this eternal lapsing from God and from his friends is
called hell. Yet bear in mind that these same persons get their being
from God or they would not be at all. ... They are in God as ’twere a
man with his life forfeit to some righteous lord whose honour he has
stolen and whose friends, and plotted frequently against his life; and
now his lord, who showed him only kindness in hopes of his reform, is
vexed to find that he declines to mend. Holding him in the grip of
justice, his lord forbears to kill. He punishes the outrage on
himself. ... Bound hand and foot, the man is cast into the lowest
donjon among toads and reptiles and the foul water which is wont to
lie in deepest donjon-keeps. ... Even so it is permissible to say that
man is at the court, for the donjon is the royal court as much as the
hall is where the king stays with his friends; but conditions, you
see, are different. ... Know that grief endures eternally.  I marvel
that anyone who hears these words should dare to sin. Purgatory is so
grievous in itself that anyone who knows the rights of it would stay
no time in sin.
