---
Source:
  ID: 20c3721c-2af4-449e-a9c0-9791ceb9b9ae
  Locus:
    Page: 800
Tags:
  - 790
  - 26
By: Sri Chandrasekhara Bhâratî Swâmigal
---
If belief in the personality of Christ is a necessary condition of salvation,
we must be prepared to say that all those persons who have lived before the
time of Jesus have been denied the benefit of salvation for no fault of theirs
and simply because they happened to be born when Jesus was yet unborn. The same
reasoning would deny salvation to those who lived even at the same time as
Jesus or since that time but may not have even heard of him.  Further, don’t
you think it very unfair on the part of God that He should suddenly wake up on
a particular day and prescribe for all mankind a necessary condition of
salvation? Did He forget that the people who had the misfortune to be born
before that date had souls to save? If He did not forget, did He take care to
prescribe for them the means necessary for them to attain salvation? If He did
so prescribe. His prescription could not possibly have included a belief in the
Jesus to be born. The only logical hypothesis therefore which any reasonable
man can accept is that God even when He created the first man -- if there was
such a time -- Himself simultaneously promulgated also the means for his
salvation, for even the first man was certainly in need of salvation. We
accordingly say of our Vedas that they were coeval with the first man -- not in
the sense that they were created together, for we believe that there was no
first creation but that everything is beginningless, but in the sense that they
were co-existing -- and that they are the Revelations of God Himself. Any
religion which traces its origin from a later time, any time after creation,
and from any teacher other than God, is bound to be imperfect and short-lived.
