---
Source:
  ID: 20c3721c-2af4-449e-a9c0-9791ceb9b9ae
  Locus:
    Page: 310
Tags:
  - Combat-Action=Symbolism=The Divine Imprint in Manifestation
  - Combat-Action=Orthodoxy-Ritual-Method
  - 775
  - 790
  - 505
  - 275
By: Nicholas of Cusa
---
All our greatest philosophers and theologians unanimously assert that
the visible universe is a faithful reflection of the invisible, and
that from creatures we can rise to a knowledge of the Creator, ‘in a
mirror and in a dark manner’, as it were. The fundamental reason for
the use of symbolism in the study of spiritual things (is that) we
know for a fact that all things stand in some sort of relation to one
another; that, in virtue of this inter-relation, all the individuals
constitute one universe and that in the one Absolute the multiplicity
of beings is unity itself. Every image is an approximate reproduction
of the exemplar; yet, apart from the Absolute image or the Exemplar
itself in unity of nature, no image will so faithfully or precisely
reproduce the exemplar, as to rule out the possibility of an infinity
of more faithful and precise images. ...

When we use an image and try to reach analogically what is as yet
unknown, there must be no doubt at all about the image; for it is only
by way of postulates and things certain that we can arrive at the
unknown. ... Following in the way of the Ancients, we are in complete
agreement with them in saying that, since there is no other approach
to a knowledge of things divine than that of symbols, we cannot do
better than use mathematical signs on account of their indestructible
certitude.
