---
Source:
  Title: The Complete Works of Chuang Tzu
  ID: 50ae0a98-5702-40cb-8c11-4c6297aa457a
  Translator: Burton Watson
By: Zhuangzi
Locus:
  Chapter: 5
  Paragraph: 25
Title: The Sign Of Virtue Complete
---
Duke Ai of Lu said to Confucius, "In Wei there was an ugly man named Ai
T'ai-t'o. But when men were around him, they thought only of him and
couldn't break away, and when women saw him, they ran begging to their
fathers and mothers, saying, `I'd rather be this gentleman's concubine
than another man's wife!' - there were more than ten such cases and it
hasn't stopped yet. No one ever heard him take the lead - he always
just chimed in with other people. He wasn't in the position of a ruler
where he could save men's lives, and he had no store of provisions to
fill men's bellies. On top of that, he was ugly enough to astound the
whole world, chimed in but never led, and knew no more than what went
on right around him. And yet men and women flocked to him. He certainly
must be different from other men, I thought, and I summoned him so I
could have a look. Just as they said - he was ugly enough to astound
the world. But he hadn't been with me more than a month or so when I
began to realize what kind of man he was, and before the year was out,
I really trusted him. There was no one in the state to act as chief
minister, and I wanted to hand the government over to him. He was vague
about giving an answer, evasive, as though he hoped to be let off, and
I was embarrassed, but in the end I turned the state over to him. Then,
before I knew it, he left me and went away. I felt completely crushed,
as though I'd suffered a loss and didn't have anyone left to enjoy my
state with. What kind of man is he anyway?"
