---
Source:
  ID: 20c3721c-2af4-449e-a9c0-9791ceb9b9ae
  Locus:
    Page: 589
  Source:
    Title: Phaedo
    Locus: 110 B ff
By: Plato
Tags:
  - Life-Love=The Primordial State=The Terrestrial Paradise
  - 670
  - 775
  - 941
  - 959
---
Of that upper earth which is under the heaven ... the whole presents a single
and continuous appearance of variety in unity. And in this fair region
everything that grows -- trees, and flowers, and fruits -- are in a like degree
fairer than any here; and there are hills, having stones in them in a like
degree smoother, and more transparent, and fairer in colour than our
highly-valued emeralds and sardonyxes and jaspers, and other gems, which are
but minute fragments of them; for there all the stones are like our precious
stones, and fairer still. The reason is, that they are pure, and not, like our
precious stones, infected or corroded by the corrupt briny elements which
coagulate among us, and which breed foulness and disease both in earth and
stones, as well as in animals and plants. They are the jewels of the upper
earth, which also shines with gold and silver and the like, and they are set in
the light of day and are large and abundant and in all places, making the earth
a sight to gladden the beholderâ€™s eye. And there are animals and men, some in a
middle region, others dwelling about the air as we dwell about the sea; others
in islands which the air flows round, near the continent; and in a word, the
air is used by them as the water and the sea are by us, and the ether is to
them what the air is to us. Moreover, the temperament of their seasons is such
that they have no disease, and live much longer than we do, and have sight and
hearing and smell, and all the other senses, in far greater perfection, in the
same proportion that air is purer than water or the ether than air. Also, they
have temples and sacred places in which the gods really dwell, and they hear
their voices and receive their answers, and are conscious of them and hold
converse with them; and they see the sun, moon, and stars as they truly are,
and their other blessedness is of a piece with this.
