---
Source:
  ID: 20c3721c-2af4-449e-a9c0-9791ceb9b9ae
  Locus:
    Page: 255-256
Tags:
  - Combat-Action=Judgement=The Round of Existence
  - Sacrifice-Death=Illusion=Mâyâ and Magic
  - Sacrifice-Death=Volition, Obedience and Conformity=Volition
  - Combat-Action=Judgement=On Hell and Damnation
By: Boehme
---
But in that thou moreover sayest, why do not the souls which are
without God feel hell in this world? I answer： They bear it about
with them in their wicked consciences, but they know it not; because
the world hath put out their eyes, and its deadly cup hath cast them
likewise into a sleep, a most fatal sleep. Notwithstanding which it
must be owned that the wicked do frequently feel hell within them
during the time of this mortal life, though they may not apprehend
that it is hell, because of the earthly vanity which cleaveth unto
them from without, and the sensible pleasures and amusements wherewith
they are intoxicated. And moreover it is to be noted, that the
outward life in every such one hath yet the light of the outward
nature, which ruleth in that life; and so the pain of hell cannot, so
long as that hath the rule, be revealed. But when the body dieth or
breaketh away, so as the soul cannot any longer enjoy such temporal
pleasure and delight, nor the light of this outward world, which is
wholly thereupon extinguished as to it; then the soul stands in an
eternal hunger and thirst after such vanities as it was here in love
withal, but yet can reach nothing but that false will, which it had
impressed in itself while in the body; and wherein it had abounded to
its great loss. And now whereas it had too much of its will in this
life, and yet was not contented therewith, it hath after this
separation by death, as little of it; which createth in it an
everlasting thirst after that which it can henceforth never obtain
more, and causeth it to be in a perpetual anxious lust after vanity,
according to its former impression, and in a continual rage of hunger
after those sorts of wickedness and lewdness whereinto it was
immersed, being in the flesh. Fain would it do more evil still, but
that it hath not either wherein or wherewith to effect the same, left
it.
