---
Source:
  ID: 20c3721c-2af4-449e-a9c0-9791ceb9b9ae
  Location:
    Page: 515
Tags:
  - Life-Love=Faith=Salvation Through Faith
  - 66
  - 366
  - 42
By: St Bernard
Reference:
  - Title: Baruch
    Location: III 11
---
We have learned that every soul, although weighed down with sins,
caught in the meshes of imperfections, held captive in exile,
imprisoned in the flesh, sunk ir. mire, held fast in mud, fastened to
the body, rendered helpless by anxieties, distressed by business
considerations, grown suspicious because of fear, broken by sorrow,
wandering about in the midst of errors, worried by cares, grown
restless because of suspicions, and finally a stranger in the land of
enemies, and according to the word of the Prophet, defiled with the
dead, ... counted with them that go down into hell -- although, I say,
thus condemned and thus despairing, we have learned that nevertheless
this soul can discover within herself not only the source whence she
can breathe again in the hope of forgiveness, in the hope of mercy,
but the source, as well, whence she may dare aspire to the nuptials of
the Word, not fearing to enter into an alliance of friendship with God
Himself, nor afraid to draw the sweet yoke of love with Him who is
King of angels. For what is there that she may not safely dare in the
presence of Him whose image, she discerns, gives her her distinction,
and a likeness to whom, she knows, makes her noble. What terror, I
say, has Majesty for her to whom confidence is given by virtue of her
very origin? It is necessary only that she take care to preserve by an
upright life the purity of the nature given her at birth.
