---
Source:
  ID: 20c3721c-2af4-449e-a9c0-9791ceb9b9ae
  Location:
    Page: 322-323
Tags:
  - Combat-Action=Symbolism=Ritual Symbols and Representations of the
    Universe
  - 831
Commentary: The four ages, the four quarters, the six directions of
  space plus the center, are all additional examples of four and
  seven as sacred numbers.
By: Black Elk
---
In setting up the sun dance lodge, we are really making the universe
in a likeness; for, you see, each of the posts around the lodge
represents some particular object of creation, so that the whole
circle is the entire creation, and the one tree at the center, upon
which the twenty-eight poles rest, is Wakan-Tanka, who is the center
of everything. Everything comes from Him, and sooner or later
everything returns to Him. And I should also tell you why it is that
we use twenty-eight poles. I have already explained why the numbers
four and seven are sacred;1 then if you add four sevens you get
twenty-eight. Also the moon lives twenty-eight days, and this is our
month; each of these days of the month represents something sacred to
us; two of the days represent the Great Spirit; two are for Mother
Earth; four are for the four winds; one is for the Spotted Eagle; one
for the sun; and one for the moon; one is for the Morning star; and
four for the four ages; seven are for our seven great rites; one is
for the buffalo; one for the fire; one for the water; one for the
rock; and finally one is for the two-legged people. If you add all
these days up you will see that they come to twenty-eight. You should
also know that the buffalo has twenty-eight ribs, and that in our war
bonnets we usually use twenty-eight feathers. You see. there is a
significance for everything, and these are the things that are good
for men to know, and to remember.
