---
Source:
  Title: The Complete Works of Chuang Tzu
  ID: 50ae0a98-5702-40cb-8c11-4c6297aa457a
  Translator: Burton Watson
By: Zhuangzi
Locus:
  Chapter: 8
  Paragraph: 12
Title: Webbed Toes
---
He who applies his nature to benevolence and righteousness may go as
far with it as Tseng and Shih, but I would not call him an expert. He
who applies his nature to the five flavors may go as far with it as Yu
Erh, but I would not call him an expert. He who applies his nature to
the five notes may go as far with it as Music Master K'uang, but I
would not call this good hearing. He who applies his nature to the five
colors may go as far with it as Li Chu, but I would not call this good
eyesight. My definition of expertness has nothing to do with
benevolence and righteousness; it means being expert in regard to your
Virtue, that is all. My definition of expertness has nothing to do with
benevolence or righteousness ; it means following the true form of
your inborn nature, that is all. When I speak of good hearing, I do not
mean listening to others; I mean simply listening to yourself. When I
speak of good eyesight, I do not mean looking at others; I mean simply
looking at yourself. He who does not look at himself but looks at
others, who does not get hold of himself but gets hold of others, is
getting what other men have got and failing to get what he himself has
got. He finds joy in what brings joy to other men, but finds no joy in
what would bring joy to himself. And if he finds joy in what brings joy
to other men, but finds no joy in what would bring joy to himself, then
whether he is a Robber Chih or a Po Yi he is equally deluded and
perverse. I have a sense of shame before the Way and its Virtue, and
for that reason I do not venture to raise myself up in deeds of
benevolence and righteousness, or to lower myself in deluded and
perverse practices.
