---
Source:
  ID: 20c3721c-2af4-449e-a9c0-9791ceb9b9ae
  Locus:
    Page: 332
Tags:
  - Combat-Action=Work, Action and Society=On ‘Karma’ and ‘Karma Yoga’
  - Life-Love=Prayer-Meditation-Contemplation=Man Created for Contemplation
  - Sacrifice-Death=Volition, Obedience and Conformity=Obedience
By: St Francis de Sales
---
Curiosity, ambition, disquiet, the not adverting to, or not
considering, the end for which we are in this world, are the causes
why we have a thousand times more hindrance than business, more
worries than work, more occupation than profit; and these are the
embarrassments, that is, the silly, vain and superfluous undertakings
with which we charge ourselves, that turn us from the love of God, and
not the true and lawful exercises of our vocations. ...

While the plague afflicted the Milanese, S. Charles never made any
difficulty in frequenting the houses and touching the persons that
were infected. Yet he only frequented and touched them, so far forth
as the necessity of God’s work required, nor would he for the world
have thrust himself into danger without true necessity, lest he should
commit the sin of tempting God. So that he was never touched with any
infection, God’s Providence preserving him who had so pure a
confidence in it, that it had no mixture either of fear or rashness.
In like manner God takes care of those who go not to the court, to the
bar, to war, except by the necessity of their duty; and in that case a
man is neither to be so scrupulous as to abandon good and lawful
affairs by not going, nor so overweening and presumptuous as to go
thither or stay there without the express necessity of duty and
affairs.
