---
Source:
  ID: 20c3721c-2af4-449e-a9c0-9791ceb9b9ae
  Locus:
    Page: 277-278
Tags:
  - Combat-Action=Orthodoxy-Ritual-Method=The Chain of Transmission
  - Sacrifice-Death=Volition, Obedience and Conformity=Obedience
  - Union-Identity=Revelation-Authority-Infallibility=The Hierarchy of Powers
  - Combat-Action=Heterodoxy And Deviation=Deviation
By: St Simeon the New Theologian
---
As the immaterial hierarchies of heavenly powers are illumined by God
in just sequence, so that the Divine light penetrates from the first
hierarchy to the second, from the second to the third and so to them
all; so the saints, illumined by holy angels, are linked together and
united by the bond of the Holy Spirit and thus become akin to them and
of equal rank.  Moreover, the saints -- those who appear from
generation to generation, from time to time, following the saints who
preceded them -- become linked with their predecessors through
obedience to Divine commandments and, endowed with Divine grace,
become filled with the same light. In such a sequence all of them
together form a kind of golden chain, each saint being a separate link
in this chain, joined to the first by faith, right actions and love; a
chain which has its strength in God and can hardly be broken.

A man who does not express desire to link himself to the latest of the
saints in all love and humility owing to a certain distrust of him,
will never be linked with the preceding saints and will not be
admitted to their succession, even though he thinks he possesses all
possible faith and love for God and for all His saints. He will be
cast out of their midst, as one who refused to take humbly the place
allotted to him by God before all time, and to link himself to that
latest saint as God had disposed.
