---
Source:
  ID: 20c3721c-2af4-449e-a9c0-9791ceb9b9ae
  Locus:
    Page: 123
By: Hermes
Tags:
  - Sacrifice-Death=Sacrifice and Suffering=The Divine Allopathy
  - Life-Love=The Primordial State
  - Sacrifice-Death=Separation-Sin=Anatomy of the Fallen State
  - Sacrifice-Death=Illusion=The Hold of Passion
---
In the case of the irrational animals, intellect (voûs) co-operates with the
special form of instinct which belongs to each several kind of beast; but in
men, intellect works against the natural instincts. Every soul, as soon as it
has been embodied, is depraved by pain and pleasure; for pain and pleasure
belong to a composite body, and seethe like juices in it. and the soul steps
into them and is plunged in them. Those souls then of which intellect takes
command are illuminated by its light, and it counteracts their
prepossessions; for as a good physician inflicts pain on the body, burning or
cutting it, when disease has taken possession of it, even so intellect
inflicts pain on the soul, ridding it of pleasure, from which spring all the
soul’s diseases. And godlessness is a great disease of the soul; for the
beliefs of the godless bring in their train all kinds of evils, and nothing
that is good. Clearly then, intellect, inasmuch as it counteracts this
disease, confers good on the soul, just as the physician confers health on
the body. But those human souls which have not got intellect to guide them
are in the same case as the souls of the irrational animals. For intellect
co-operates with them, and gives free course to their desires; and such souls
are swept along by the rush of appetite to the gratification of their
desires, and strive towards irrational ends; and like the irrational animals,
they cease not from irrational anger and irrational desire, and are
insatiable in their craving for evils.
