---
By: Zhuangzi
Source:
  ID: 50ae0a98-5702-40cb-8c11-4c6297aa457a
  Locus:
    Chapter: 2
    Paragraph: 14
  Title: The Complete Works of Chuang Tzu
  Translator: Burton Watson
Title: Discussion On Making All Things Equal
---
Everything has its "that," everything has its "this." From the point of
view of "that" you cannot see it, but through understanding you can
know it. So I say, "that" comes out of "this" and "this" depends on
"that" - which is to say that "this" and "that" give birth to each
other. But where there is birth there must be death; where there is
death there must be birth. Where there is acceptability there must be
unacceptability; where there is unacceptability there must be
acceptability. Where there is recognition of right there must be
recognition of wrong; where there is recognition of wrong there must be
recognition of right. Therefore the sage does not proceed in such a
way, but illuminates all in the light of Heaven. He too recognizes a
"this," but a "this" which is also "that," a "that" which is also
"this." His "that" has both a right and a wrong in it; his "this" too
has both a right and a wrong in it. So, in fact, does he still have a
"this" and "that"? Or does he in fact no longer have a "this" and
"that"? A state in which "this" and "that" no longer find their
opposites is called the hinge of the Way. When the hinge is fitted into
the socket, it can respond endlessly. Its right then is a single
endlessness and its wrong too is a single endlessness. So, I say, the
best thing to use is clarity.
