---
Source:
  ID: 20c3721c-2af4-449e-a9c0-9791ceb9b9ae
  Locus:
    Page: 663-664
Tags:
  - Beauty-Peace=Beauty=The Uncreate Source of Beauty
  - 773
  - 689
  - 694
  - 48
  - 109
  - 775
By: Dionysius
---
The Super-Essential Beautiful is called ‘Beauty' because of that quality which
It imparts to all things severally according to their nature, and because It is
the Cause of the harmony and splendour in all things, flashing forth upon them
all, like light, the beautifying communications of Its originating ray; and
because it summons all things to fare unto Itself (from whence It hath the name
of ‘Fairness'), and because It draws all things together in a state of mutual
interpenetration. And it is called 'Beautiful' because It is All-Beautiful and
more than Beautiful, and is eternally, unvaryingly, unchangeably Beautiful;
incapable of birth or death or growth or decay; and not beautiful in one part
and foul in another; nor yet at one time and not at another; nor yet beautiful
in relation to one thing but not to another; nor yet beautiful in one place and
not in another (as if It were beautiful for some but were not beautiful for
others); nay, on the contrary. It is, in Itself and by Itself, uniquely and
eternally beautiful, and from beforehand It contains in a transcendent manner
the originating beauty of everything that is beautiful. For in the simple and
supernatural nature belonging to the world of beautiful things, all beauty and
all that is beautiful hath its unique and pre-existent Cause. From this
Beautiful all things possess their existence, each kind being beautiful in its
own manner, and the Beautiful causes the harmonies and sympathies and
communities of all things. And by the Beautiful all things are united together
and the Beautiful is the beginning of all things, as being the Creative Cause
which moves the world and holds all things in existence by their yearning for
their own Beauty. And It is the Goal of all things, and their Beloved, as being
their Final Cause (for it is the desire of the Beautiful that brings them all
into existence), and It is their Exemplar from which they derive their definite
limits; and hence the Beautiful is the same as the Good, inasmuch as all
things, in all causation, desire the Beautiful and Good; nor is there anything
in the world but hath a share in the Beautiful and Good. And we make bold to
say that the Non-Existent also participates in the Beautiful and the Good; for
then it is at once truly the Beautiful and the Good when it is praised
Super-Essentially in God by the subtraction of all attributes. The One Good and
Beautiful is in Its oneness the Cause of all the many beautiful and good
things.
