---
Source:
  ID: 20c3721c-2af4-449e-a9c0-9791ceb9b9ae
  Locus:
    Page: 257-258
Tags:
  - Combat-Action=Judgement=The Round of Existence
  - Sacrifice-Death=Death=Death Kills Death
By: William Law
---
Now when the time drew near that our blessed Lord was to enter upon
His last great sufferings, viz. the realities of that second death
through which He was to pass, then it was that all the anguishing
terrors of a lost soul began to open themselves in Him; then all that
eternal death which Adam had brought into his souj, when it lost the
light and spirit of Heaven, began to be awakened and stirring in the
second Adam, who was come to stand in the last state of the fallen
soul, to be encompassed with that eternal death and sensibility of
hell which must have been the everlasting state of fallen man.

The beginning of our Lord’s entrance into the terrible jaws of this
second death may be justly dated from those affecting words, ‘My soul
is exceeding sorrowful, even unto death; tarry ye here with me and
watch.’ ... The progress of these terrors are plainly shown us in our
Lord’s agony in the garden, when the reality of this eternal death so
broke in upon Him, so awakened and stirred itself in Him, as to force
great drops of blood to sweat from His body This was that cup He was
drinking from the sixth to the ninth hour on the Cross, nailed to the
terrors of a two-fold death, when He cried out, ‘My God, my God, why
hast thou forsaken me?’

We are not to suppose that our Lord’s agony was the terrors of a
person that was going to be murdered, or the fears of that death which
men could inflict upon Him; for He had told His disciples not to fear
them that could only kill the body, and therefore we may be sure He
had no such fears Himself. No, His agony was His entrance into the
last eternal terrors of the lost soul, into the real horrors of that
dreadful eternal death which man unredeemed must have died into when
he left this world. We are therefore not to consider our Lord’s death
upon the Cross as only the death of that mortal body which was nailed
to it, but we are to look upon Him with wounded hearts, as fixed and
fastened in the state of that two fold death, which was due to the
fallen nature, out of which He could not come till He could say ‘It is
finished; Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit.’ In that instant
He gave up the ghost of this earthly life; and as a proof of His
having overcome all the bars and chains of death and hell, He rent the
rocks, opened the graves, and brought the dead to life, and
triumphantly entered into that long-shut-up paradise, out of which
Adam died, and in which He promised the thief he should that day be
with Him.
