---
Source:
  - Title: Treasury of Traditional Wisdom
    Page: 464
Tags:
  - Combat-Action=Subversion-The Wrathful Side=The Last Times
  - 38
  - 442
By: Ovid
---
The age of hard iron came last. Straightway all evil burst forth into
this age of baser vein： modesty and truth and faith fled the earth,
and in their place came tricks and plots and snares, violence and
cursed love of gain. Men now spread sails to the winds, though the
sailor as yet scarce knew them; and keels of pine which long had stood
upon high mountain sides, now leaped insolently over unknown waves.
And the ground, which had hitherto been a common possession like the
sunlight and the air, the careful surveyor now marked out with
long-drawn boundary-line. Not only did men demand of the bounteous
fields the crops and sustenance they owed, but they delved as well
into the very bowels of the earth; and the wealth which the creator
had hidden away and buried deep amidst the very Stygian shades, was
brought to light, wealth that pricks men on to crime. And now baneful
iron had come, and gold more baneful than iron; war came, which fights
with both, and brandished in its bloody hands the clashing arms. Men
lived on plunder. Guest was not safe from host, nor father-in-law from
son-in-law; even among brothers ’twas rare to find affection. The
husband longed for the death of his wife, she of her husband;
murderous stepmothers brewed deadly poisons, and sons inquired into
their fathers’ years before the time. Piety lay vanquished, and the
maiden Astraea, last of the immortals, abandoned the blood-soaked
earth.

And, that high heaven might be no safer than the earth, they say that
the Giants essayed the very throne of heaven, piling huge mountains,
one on another, clear up to the stars. Then the Almighty Father hurled
his thunder bolts, shattered Olympus, and dashed Pelion down from
underlying Ossa.
