---
Source:
  - Title: Treasury of Traditional Wisdom
    Page: 136-137
By: John Smith the Platonist
Tags:
  - Sacrifice-Death=Renunciation-Detachment=Detachment From Place and
    Conditions
  - Sacrifice-Death=Death=The Art of Dying
  - Combat-Action=Symbolism=The Divine Imprint in Manifestation
---
It was a good maxim of the old Jewish writers, 'the Holy Spirit dwells not in
terrene and earthly passions.’ Divinity is not so well perceived by a subtile
wit. 'as by a purified sense.' as Plotinus phraseth it.

\... Aristotle himself thought a young man unfit to meddle with the grave
precepts of morality, till the heat and violent precipitancy of his youthful
affections were cooled and moderated. And it is observed of Pythagoras, that
he had several ways to try the capacity of his scholars, and to prove the
sedateness and moral temper of their minds, before he would entrust them with
the sublimer mysteries of his philosophy. The Platonists were herein so wary
and solicitous, that they thought the minds of men could never be purged
enough from those earthly dregs of sense and passion, in which they were so
much steeped, before they could be capable of their divine metaphysics： and
therefore they so much solicit “a separation from the body’ in all those that
would, as Socrates speaks, ‘sincerely understand divine truth;' for that was
the scope of their philosophy. This was also intimated by them in their
defining philosophy to be fieXérr/ davárov ‘a meditation of death：' aiming
herein at only a moral way of dying, by loosening the soul from the body and
this sensitive life： which they thought was necessary to a right
contemplation of intelligible things： and therefore, besides those aperal
KaOapriKai by which the souls of men were to be separated from sensuality and
purged from fleshly filth, they devised a farther way of separation more
accommodated to the condition of philosophers, which was their mathemata, or
mathematical contemplations, whereby the souls of men might farther shake off
their dependency upon sense, and learn to go as it were alone, without the
crutch of any sensible or material thing to support them.
