---
Source:
  ID: 20c3721c-2af4-449e-a9c0-9791ceb9b9ae
  Location:
    Page: 569-570
Tags:
  - Life-Love=The Primordial State=Materia Prima and Human Perfection
  - 1017
By: Philalethes
---
The Agent then must be akin to the body which is to be dissolved, and,
moreover, perfectly pure from all dross or alloy. Again, whereas gold
is fixed and solid, the Agent must be highly volatile and spiritual;
gold is thick and gross, our Agent is subtle, gold is dead, our Agent
is living and life-giving： in short, our Agent should have all those
qualities which gold has not, and which it is to impart to the gold.
Hence we conclude that Mercury alone is the true Key of our Art; for
it is in truth the dry water described by the Sages, which, though
liquid, does not wet the hands, nor anything else that does not belong
to the unity of its substance. Mercury is our doorkeeper, our balm,
our honey, oil, urine, may-dew, mother, egg, secret furnace, oven,
true fire, venomous Dragon, Theriac, ardent wine, Green Lion, Bird of
Hermes, Goose of Hermogenes, two-edged sword in the hand of the Cherub
that guards the Tree of Life, &c., &c.; it is our true, secret vessel,
and the Garden of the Sages, in which our Sun rises and sets. It is
our Royal Mineral, our triumphant vegetable Saturnia, and the magic
rod of Hermes, by means of which he assumes any shape he likes. It is
of this water that the Sage uses the words： ‘Let Alchemists boast as
much as they like, but without this water the transmutation of metals
is impossible. In Nature it is not such as we use it in our Art; it is
a most common thing, and yet the most precious treasure of all the
world.’
