---
Source:
  ID: 20c3721c-2af4-449e-a9c0-9791ceb9b9ae
  Location:
    Page: 283
Tags:
  - Combat-Action=Orthodoxy-Ritual-Method=Initiation and Spiritual
    Filiation
  - 42
  - 285
By: William Law
---
By the fall of our first father we have lost our first glorious
bodies, that eternal, celestial flesh and blood which had as truly the
nature of paradise and Heaven in it as our present bodies have the
nature, mortality and corruption of this world in them： if, therefore,
we are to be redeemed there is an absolute necessity that our souls be
clothed again with this first paradisaical or heavenly flesh and
blood, or we can never enter into the Kingdom of God.  Now this is the
reason why the Scriptures speak so particularly, so frequently, and so
emphatically of the powerful blood of Christ, of the great benefit it
is to us, of its redeeming, quickening, life-giving virtue; it is
because our first life or heavenly flesh and blood is born again in
us, or derived again into us from this blood of Christ. ...

No figurative meaning of the words is here to be sought for, we must
eat Christ’s flesh and drink His blood in the same reality as He took
upon Him the real flesh and blood of the blessed Virgin. We can have
no real relation to Christ, can be no true members of His mystical
body, but by being real partakers of that same kind of flesh and blood
which was truly His and was His for this very end, that through Him
the same might be brought forth in us. All this is strictly true of
the holy sacrament, according to the plain letter of the expression;
which sacrament was thus instituted that the great service of the
Church might continually show us that the whole of our redemption
consisted in the receiving the birth, spirit, life and nature of Jesus
Christ into us, in being bom of Him, and clothed with a heavenly flesh
and blood from Him, just as the whole of our fall consists in our
being born of Adam’s sinful nature and spirit, and in having a vile,
corrupt, and impure flesh and blood from him.
