---
Source:
  ID: 20c3721c-2af4-449e-a9c0-9791ceb9b9ae
  Location:
    Page: 441
  Source:
    Title: Book of Enoch
    Location: VI-VII
Tags:
  - Combat-Action=Subversion-The Wrathful Side=The Origins of Subversion
---
And it came to pass when the children of men had multiplied that in
those days were born unto them beautiful and comely daughters. And the
angels, the children of the heaven, saw and lusted after them, and
said to one another： ‘Come, let us choose us wives from among the
children of men and beget us children.’ And Semjâzâ, who was their
leader, said unto them： ‘I fear ye will not indeed agree to do this
deed, and I alone shall have to pay the penalty of a great sin.’ And
they all answered him and said： ‘Let us all swear an oath, and all
bind ourselves by mutual imprecations not to abandon this plan but to
do this thing.’ Then sware they all together and bound themselves by
mutual imprecations upon it. And they were in all two hundred; who
descended in the days of Jared on the summit of Mount Hermon. ...

(They) took unto themselves wives, and each chose for himself one, and
they began to go in unto them and to defile themselves with them, and
they taught them charms and enchantments, and the cutting of roots (of
trees), and made them acquainted with plants. And they became
pregnant, and they bare great giants, whose height was three thousand
ells： Who consumed all the acquisitions of men. And when men could no
longer sustain them, the giants turned against them and devoured
mankind. And they began to sin against birds, and beasts, and
reptiles, and fish, and to devour one another’s flesh, and drink the
blood. Then the earth laid accusation against the lawless ones.
