---
Source:
  - Title: Treasury of Traditional Wisdom
    Page: 475
Tags:
  - Combat-Action=Subversion-The Wrathful Side=Doctrinal Explanations of Evil
  - 124
  - Combat-Action=Judgement
  - 464
By: St Augustine
---
All things that exist, therefore, seeing that the Creator of them all
is supremely good, are themselves good. But because they are not like
their Creator, supremely and unchangeably good, their good may be
diminished and increased. But for good to be diminished is an evil,
although, however much it may be diminished, it is necessary, if the
being is to continue, that some good should remain to constitute the
being. For however small or of whatever kind the being may be, the
good which makes it a being cannot be destroyed without destroying the
being itself. ... So long as a being is in process of corruption,
there is in it some good of which it is being deprived; and if a part
of the being should remain which cannot be corrupted, this will
certainly be an incorruptible being, and accordingly the process of
corruption will result in the manifestation of this great good. But if
it do not cease to be corrupted, neither can it cease to possess good
of which corruption may deprive it. But if it should be thoroughly and
completely consumed by corruption, there will then be no good left,
because there will be no being. Wherefore corruption can consume the
good only by consuming the being. Every being, therefore, is a good; a
great good, if it cannot be corrupted; a little good, if it can; but
in any case, only the foolish or ignorant will deny that it is a good.
And if it be wholly consumed by corruption, then the corruption itself
must cease to exist, as there is no being left in which it can dwell.
