---
Source:
  - Title: Treasury of Traditional Wisdom
    Page: 313
Tags:
  - Combat-Action=Symbolism=The Divine Imprint in Manifestation
  - 124
  - Life-Love=The Primordial State
  - 366
  - 208
  - Combat-Action=Orthodoxy-Ritual-Method
By: Helvetius
---
The Sages have seen the river in which Aeneas was cleansed of his
mortality -- the river of Pactolus in Lydia which was changed into
gold by King Midas bathing in it -- the bath of Diana -- the spring of
Narcissus -- the blood of Adonis trickling upon the snowy breast of
Venus, whence was produced the anemone -- the blood of Ajax, from
which sprang the beautiful hyacinth flower -- the blood of the Giants
killed by Jupiter’s thunderbolt -- the tears which Althea shed when
she doffed her golden robes -- the magic water of Medea, out of which
grass and flowers sprang forth -- the Potion which Medea prepared from
various herbs for the rejuvenescence of old Jason -- the Medicine of
Aesculapius -- the magic juice, by the aid of which Jason obtained the
Golden Fleece -- the garden of the Hesperides, where the trees bear
golden apples in rich abundance -- Atalanta turned aside from the race
by the three golden apples -- Romulus transformed by Jupiter into a
god -- the transfiguration of the soul of Julius Caesar into a
Comet -- Juno’s serpent, Pytho, born of decomposed earth after
Deucalion’s flood -- the fire at which Medea lit her seven torches --
the Moon kindled by Phaëthon’s conflagration -- Arcadia, in which
Jupiter was wont to walk abroad -- the habitation of Pluto in whose
vestibule lay the three-headed Cerberus -- the Pile, on which Hercules
burnt those limbs which he had received from his mother, with fire,
till only the fixed and incombustible elements derived from his father
were left, and he became a god -- and the rustic cottage whose roof
was made of pure gold.  Blessed, yea, thrice blessed, is the man to
whom Jehovah has revealed the method of preparing that Divine Salt by
which the metallic or mineral body is corrupted, destroyed, and
mortified, while its soul in the meantime is revived for the glorious
resurrection of the philosophical body -- blessed, I say, is he to
whom the knowledge of our Art is vouchsafed in answer to prayer
throughout all his work for the Holy Spirit! For it should be
remembered that this is the only way in which our Art of Arts is
vouchsafed to man, and if you would attain it, the service of God
ought to be your chief business.
