---
Source:
  - Title: Treasury of Traditional Wisdom
    Page: 256-257
  - Title: Timaeus
    Location: 91 D ff
By: Plato
Tags:
  - Combat-Action=Judgement=The Round of Existence
  - 761
---
The race of birds was created out of innocent light-minded men, who,
although their minds were directed toward heaven, imagined, in their
simplicity, that the clearest demonstration of the things above was to
be obtained by sight. ... The race of wild pedestrian animals, again,
came from those who had no philosophy in any of their thqughts, and
never considered at all about the nature of the heavens, because they
had ceased to use the courses of the head, but followed the guidance
of those parts of the soul which are in the breast. In consequence of
these habits of theirs they had their front-legs and their heads
resting upon the earth to which they were drawn by natural
affinity.  ...  And the most foolish of them, who trail their bodies
entirely upon the ground and have no longer any need of feet, he made
without feet to crawl upon the earth.  The fourth class were the
inhabitants of the water; these were made out of the most entirely
senseless and ignorant of all, whom the transformers did not think any
longer worthy of pure respiration, because they possessed a soul which
was made impure by all sorts of transgression; and instead of the
subtle and pure medium of air, they gave them the deep and muddy sea
to be their element of respiration; and hence arose the race of fishes
and oysters, and other aquatic animals, which have received the most
remote habitations as a punishment of their outlandish ignorance.
